Paper Title:	Alterations in the Abundance and Co-occurrence of 
Paper Abstract:	 and 
Paper PMID:	30245977
Paper PMCID or DOI:	PMC6137959

Paper Title:	Impaired Autophagy in Intestinal Epithelial Cells Alters Gut Microbiota and Host Immune Responses.
Paper Abstract:	Establishing and maintaining beneficial interactions between the host and associated gut microbiota are pivotal requirements for host health. Autophagy is an important catabolic recycling pathway that degrades long-lived proteins and some organelles by lysosome to maintain cellular homeostasis. Although impaired autophagy is thought to be closely correlated with Crohn's disease (CD), the functional role of autophagy in the maintenance of gut microbiota is poorly understood. As autophagy-related 5 (
Paper PMID:	30006408
Paper PMCID or DOI:	PMC6121970

Paper Title:	The Presence of Genotoxic and/or Pro-inflammatory Bacterial Genes in Gut Metagenomic Databases and Their Possible Link With Inflammatory Bowel Diseases.
Paper Abstract:	 The human gut microbiota is a dynamic community of microorganisms that mediate important biochemical processes. Differences in the gut microbial composition have been associated with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) and other intestinal disorders. In this study, we quantified and compared the frequencies of eight genotoxic and/or pro-inflammatory bacterial genes found in metagenomic Whole Genome Sequences (mWGSs) of samples from individuals with IBD vs. a cohort of healthy human subjects. 
Paper PMID:	29692798
Paper PMCID or DOI:	PMC5902703

Paper Title:	C4B gene influences intestinal microbiota through complement activation in patients with paediatric-onset inflammatory bowel disease.
Paper Abstract:	Complement C4 genes are linked to paediatric inflammatory bowel disease (PIBD), but the mechanisms have remained unclear. We examined the influence of C4B gene number on intestinal microbiota and in-vitro serum complement activation by intestinal microbes in PIBD patients. Complement C4A and C4B gene numbers were determined by genomic reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) from 64 patients with PIBD (Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis). The severity of the disease course was determined from faecal calprotectin levels. Intestinal microbiota was assessed using the HITChip microarray. Complement reactivity in patients was analysed by incubating their sera with Yersinia pseudotuberculosis and Akkermansia muciniphila and determining the levels of C3a and soluble terminal complement complex (SC5b-9) using enzyme immunoassays. The microbiota diversity was wider in patients with no C4B genes than in those with one or two C4B genes, irrespective of intestinal inflammation. C4B and total C4 gene numbers correlated positively with soluble terminal complement complex (TCC, SC5b-9) levels when patient serum samples were stimulated with bacteria. Our results suggest that the C4B gene number associates positively with inflammation in patients with PIBD. Multiple copies of the C4B gene may thus aggravate the IBD-associated dysbiosis through escalated complement reactivity towards the microbiota.
Paper PMID:	28832994
Paper PMCID or DOI:	PMC5680072

Paper Title:	Early Changes in Microbial Community Structure Are Associated with Sustained Remission After Nutritional Treatment of Pediatric Crohn's Disease.
Paper Abstract:	Clinical remission achieved by exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN) is associated with marked microbiome changes. In this prospective study of exclusive enteral nutrition, we employ a hierarchical model of microbial community structure to distinguish between pediatric Crohn's disease patients who achieved sustained remission (SR) and those who relapsed early (non-SR), after restarting a normal diet.
Paper PMID:	27805918
Paper PMCID or DOI:	10.1097/MIB.0000000000000956

Paper Title:	Bioactivity of Polyphenols: Preventive and Adjuvant Strategies toward Reducing Inflammatory Bowel Diseases-Promises, Perspectives, and Pitfalls.
Paper Abstract:	Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are characterized by autoimmune and inflammation-related complications of the large intestine (ulcerative colitis) and additional parts of the digestive tract (Crohn's disease). Complications include pain, diarrhoea, chronic inflammation, and cancer. IBD prevalence has increased during the past decades, especially in Westernized countries, being as high as 1%. As prognosis is poor and medication often ineffective or causing side effects, additional preventive/adjuvant strategies are sought. A possible approach is via diets rich in protective constituents. Polyphenols, the most abundant phytochemicals, have been associated with anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, immunomodulatory, and apoptotic properties. Locally reducing oxidative stress, they can further act on cellular targets, altering gene expression related to inflammation, including NF-κB, Nrf-2, Jak/STAT, and MAPKs, suppressing downstream cytokine formation (e.g., IL-8, IL-1β, and TNF-α), and boosting the bodies' own antioxidant status (HO-1, SOD, and GPx). Moreover, they may promote, as prebiotics, healthy microbiota (e.g., Bifidobacteria, Akkermansia), short-chain fatty acid formation, and reduced gut permeability/improved tight junction stability. However, potential adverse effects such as acting as prooxidants, or perturbations of efflux transporters and phase I/II metabolizing enzymes, with increased uptake of undesired xenobiotics, should also be considered. In this review, we summarize current knowledge around preventive and arbitrary actions of polyphenols targeting IBD.
Paper PMID:	27478535
Paper PMCID or DOI:	PMC4958438

Paper Title:	Dysbiosis, inflammation, and response to treatment: a longitudinal study of pediatric subjects with newly diagnosed inflammatory bowel disease.
Paper Abstract:	Gut microbiome dysbiosis has been demonstrated in subjects with newly diagnosed and chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In this study we sought to explore longitudinal changes in dysbiosis and ascertain associations between dysbiosis and markers of disease activity and treatment outcome.
Paper PMID:	27412252
Paper PMCID or DOI:	PMC4944441

Paper Title:	Consistent Prebiotic Effect on Gut Microbiota With Altered FODMAP Intake in Patients with Crohn's Disease: A Randomised, Controlled Cross-Over Trial of Well-Defined Diets.
Paper Abstract:	Altering FODMAP (fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides and polyols) intake has substantial effects on gut microbiota. This study aimed to investigate effects of altering FODMAP intake on markers of colonic health in patients with Crohn's disease.
Paper PMID:	27077959
Paper PMCID or DOI:	PMC4855163

Paper Title:	Treatment with a Monoclonal Anti-IL-12p40 Antibody Induces Substantial Gut Microbiota Changes in an Experimental Colitis Model.
Paper Abstract:	Crohn's disease is associated with gut microbiota (GM) dysbiosis. Treatment with the anti-IL-12p40 monoclonal antibody (12p40-mAb) has therapeutic effect in Crohn's disease patients. This study addresses whether a 12p40-mAb treatment influences gut microbiota (GM) composition in mice with adoptive transfer colitis (AdTr-colitis).
Paper PMID:	26880890
Paper PMCID or DOI:	PMC4736578

Paper Title:	Microbiota – a key to healing the gastrointestinal tract?
Paper Abstract:	At present, it is already known that many gastrointestinal tract diseases are caused by disorders of the intestinal ecosystem. The contribution of microbiota disorders to the development and sustaining of in􀏐lammatory bowel diseases, irritable bowel syndrome, necrotizing enterocolitis, constipation or bloating has been demonstrated in numerous scienti􀏐ic studies. Another matter is bacterial imbalance in food allergy and atopic diseases. The effectiveness of probiotics and prebiotics in these diseases has been repeatedly con􀏐irmed, which made researchers search for new diseases in which probiotics could be an ef􀏐icient therapeutic solution. Reports have also been published on microbiota disturbances in children with a spectrum of autistic disorders, depression or metabolic syndrome, and in obese patients. New micro -organisms have been discovered, which in addition to Lactobacillus or Bi􀏔idobacterium bacteria, may signi􀏐icantly in􀏐luence the improvement of human health. Especially promising are two bacterial species, Akkermansia muciniphila and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, which seem to interact in continuity regeneration of the intestinal epithelium. A. muciniphila has the ability to degrade mucin, while producing acetic acid, propionic acid and oligosaccharides. These products become the substrate for F. prausnitzii, one of the main producers of butyrate in the intestine. The anaerobic butyrate -producing bacterium helps to inhibit in􀏐lammation in the gastrointestinal tract, while preventing increased intestinal permeability. Growth stimulation in bacteria (e.g. towards prebiotic therapy) may therefore prove to be a valuable nutritional option and an ef􀏐icient way to restore the intestinal epithelium. While A. muciniphila is extensively studied in the context of obesity and diabetes, F. prausnitzii may become an interesting marker for Crohn’s disease activity. The aim of this paper is to present new and promising aspects of intestinal microbiota restoration in the treatment of selected diseases.
Paper PMID:	29533578
Paper Title:	TNFR2 Deficiency Acts in Concert with Gut Microbiota To Precipitate Spontaneous Sex-Biased Central Nervous System Demyelinating Autoimmune Disease.
Paper Abstract:	TNF-α antagonists provide benefit to patients with inflammatory autoimmune disorders such as Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. However, TNF antagonism unexplainably exacerbates CNS autoimmunity, including multiple sclerosis and neuromyelitis optica. The underlying mechanisms remain enigmatic. We demonstrate that TNFR2 deficiency results in female-biased spontaneous autoimmune CNS demyelination in myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-specific 2D2 TCR transgenic mice. Disease in TNFR2(-/-) 2D2 mice was associated with CNS infiltration of T and B cells as well as increased production of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-specific IL-17, IFN-γ, and IgG2b. Attenuated disease in TNF(-/-) 2D2 mice relative to TNFR2(-/-) 2D2 mice identified distinctive roles for TNFR1 and TNFR2. Oral antibiotic treatment eliminated spontaneous autoimmunity in TNFR2(-/-) 2D2 mice to suggest role for gut microbiota. Illumina sequencing of fecal 16S rRNA identified a distinct microbiota profile in male TNFR2(-/-) 2D2 that was associated with disease protection. Akkermansia muciniphila, Sutterella sp., Oscillospira sp., Bacteroides acidifaciens, and Anaeroplasma sp. were selectively more abundant in male TNFR2(-/-) 2D2 mice. In contrast, Bacteroides sp., Bacteroides uniformis, and Parabacteroides sp. were more abundant in affected female TNFR2(-/-) 2D2 mice, suggesting a role in disease causation. Overall, TNFR2 blockade appears to disrupt commensal bacteria-host immune symbiosis to reveal autoimmune demyelination in genetically susceptible mice. Under this paradigm, microbes likely contribute to an individual's response to anti-TNF therapy. This model provides a foundation for host immune-microbiota-directed measures for the prevention and treatment of CNS-demyelinating autoimmune disorders.
Paper PMID:	26475926
Paper PMCID or DOI:	10.4049/jimmunol.1501664

Paper Title:	Differential modulation by Akkermansia muciniphila and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii of host peripheral lipid metabolism and histone acetylation in mouse gut organoids.
Paper Abstract:	The gut microbiota is essential for numerous aspects of human health. However, the underlying mechanisms of many host-microbiota interactions remain unclear. The aim of this study was to characterize effects of the microbiota on host epithelium using a novel ex vivo model based on mouse ileal organoids. We have explored the transcriptional response of organoids upon exposure to short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and products generated by two abundant microbiota constituents, Akkermansia muciniphila and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii. We observed that A. muciniphila metabolites affect various transcription factors and genes involved in cellular lipid metabolism and growth, supporting previous in vivo findings. Contrastingly, F. prausnitzii products exerted only weak effects on host transcription. Additionally, A. muciniphila and its metabolite propionate modulated expression of Fiaf, Gpr43, histone deacetylases (HDACs), and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (Pparγ), important regulators of transcription factor regulation, cell cycle control, lipolysis, and satiety. This work illustrates that specific bacteria and their metabolites differentially modulate epithelial transcription in mouse organoids. We demonstrate that intestinal organoids provide a novel and powerful ex vivo model for host-microbiome interaction studies.
Paper PMID:	25118238
Paper PMCID or DOI:	PMC4145684

Paper Title:	Mucolytic bacteria with increased prevalence in IBD mucosa augment in vitro utilization of mucin by other bacteria.
Paper Abstract:	Mucosa-associated bacteria are increased in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which suggests the possibility of an increased source of digestible endogenous mucus substrate. We hypothesized that mucolytic bacteria are increased in IBD, providing increased substrate to sustain nonmucolytic mucosa-associated bacteria.
Paper PMID:	20648002
Paper PMCID or DOI:	10.1038/ajg.2010.281

