NAFLD+absorption	NAFLD+absorption	NAFLD+absorption	NAFLD+absorption	NAFLD+absorption	Intestine-Specific Overexpression of Carboxylesterase 2c Protects Mice From Diet-Induced Liver Steatosis and Obesity.	Murine hepatic carboxylesterase 2c (	30766961
Developments in bile salt based therapies: A critical overview.	Bile acids, amphipathic molecules known for their facilitating role in fat absorption, are also recognized as signalling molecules acting via nuclear and membrane receptors. Of the bile acid-activated receptors, the Farnesoid X Receptor (FXR) and the G protein-coupled bile acid receptor-1 (Gpbar1 or TGR5) have been studied most extensively. Bile acid signaling is critical in the regulation of bile acid metabolism itself, but it also plays a significant role in glucose, lipid and energy metabolism. Activation of FXR and TGR5 leads to reduced hepatic bile salt load, improved insulin sensitivity and glucose regulation, increased energy expenditure, and anti-inflammatory effects. These beneficial effects render bile acid signaling an interesting therapeutic target for the treatment of diseases such as cholestasis, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and diabetes. Here, we summarize recent findings on bile acid signaling and discuss potential and current limitations of bile acid receptor agonist and modulators of bile acid transport as future therapeutics for a wide-spectrum of diseases.	30582898
Ezetimibe suppresses development of liver tumors by inhibiting angiogenesis in mice fed a high-fat diet.	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a common cause of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, effective therapeutic strategies for preventing and treating NASH-mediated liver cirrhosis and HCC are lacking. Cholesterol is closely associated with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a key factor that promotes HCC. Recent reports have demonstrated that statins could prevent HCC development. In contrast, we have little information on ezetimibe, an inhibitor of cholesterol absorption, in regards to the prevention of NASH-related liver cirrhosis and HCC. In the present study, a steatohepatitis-related HCC model, hepatocyte-specific phosphatase and tensin homolog (Pten)-deficient (Pten	30520543
[Secondary osteoporosis. Bone disease in liver cirrhosis.]	Because of improved treatment of cirrhosis, patients are living longer and bone disesae such as osteoporosis is found in an increasing proportion of patients with cirrhosis. As the causes for bone diseases in cirrhosis, inhibition of vitamin D hydration and inhibition of vitamin D absorption due to decreased secretion of cholic acid have been reported, and various other causes are concerned. These bone diseases have been treated with bisphosphonates, but no definite opinion has been obtained in relation to therapeutic effects. In recent years, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease(NAFLD)and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis(NASH)is increasing in prevalence. Relation of these deseases with osteoporosis, however, is not well known and further investigation is needed.	30487332
Analysis of Time-Series Gene Expression Data to Explore Mechanisms of Chemical-Induced Hepatic Steatosis Toxicity.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a wide spectrum of disease, ranging from simple fatty liver through steatosis with inflammation and necrosis to cirrhosis. One of the most challenging problems in biomedical research and within the chemical industry is to understand the underlying mechanisms of complex disease, and complex adverse outcome pathways (AOPs). Based on a set of 28 steatotic chemicals with gene expression data measured on primary hepatocytes at three times (2, 8, and 24 h) and three doses (low, medium, and high), we identified genes and pathways, defined as molecular initiating events (MIEs) and key events (KEs) of steatosis using a combination of a time series and pathway analyses. Among the genes deregulated by these compounds, the study highlighted OSBPL9, ALDH7A1, MYADM, SLC51B, PRDX6, GPAT3, TMEM135, DLGDA5, BCO2, APO10LA, TSPAN6, NEURL1B, and DUSP1. Furthermore, pathway analysis indicated deregulation of pathways related to lipid accumulation, such as fat digestion and absorption, linoleic and linolenic acid metabolism, calcium signaling pathway, fatty acid metabolism, peroxisome, retinol metabolism, and steroid metabolic pathways in a time dependent manner. Such transcription profile analysis can help in the understanding of the steatosis evolution over time generated by chemical exposure.	30279702
Polyurethane Nanoparticle-Loaded Fenofibrate Exerts Inhibitory Effects on Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Mice.	Polyurethane (PU) nanoparticles are potential drug carriers. We aimed to study the in vitro and in vivo efficacy of biodegradable PU nanoparticles loaded with fenofibrate (FNB-PU) on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). FNB-PU was prepared by a green process, and its preventive effects on NAFLD were investigated on HepG2 cells and mice. FNB-PU showed sustained in vitro FNB release profile. Compared to FNB crude drug, FNB-PU significantly decreased triglyceride content in HepG2 cells incubated with oleic acid and in livers of mice with NAFLD induced by a methionine choline deficient diet, and increased plasma FNB concentration of the mice. FNB-PU increased absorption of FNB and therefore enhanced the inhibitory effects of FNB on NAFLD.	30188729
Pathogenesis of insulin resistance in pregnant women with obesity.	Introduction: Obesity is one of the most important medical and social problems in many countries of the world, as it is associated with the development of the most common non-communicable diseases: cardiovascular, type II diabetes mellitus, motor disorders, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NHAHP) and others. The aim of this paper is to analyze the pathogenetic mechanisms of insulin resistance development in pregnant women with varying obesity degrees in early and late gestation periods.	30099414
Genetically Obese Human Gut Microbiota Induces Liver Steatosis in Germ-Free Mice Fed on Normal Diet.	Dysbiotic gut microbiota contributes to genetically obese phenotype in human. However, the effect of genetic obesity-associated gut microbiota on host hepatic metabolic deteriorations remains largely unknown. Gut microbiota from a genetically obese human donor before and after a dietary weight loss program was transplanted into germ-free C57BL/6J male mice, grouped as PreM and PostM groups, respectively. The gut microbiome, liver pathology and transcriptome response in the gnotobiotic mice were evaluated. After being fed on normal chow diet for 4 weeks, PreM group developed liver macrovesicular steatosis accompanied with higher concentrations of hepatic triglyceride and cholesterol, while PostM group exhibited normal hepatic physiology. The gut microbiota in PreM and PostM groups was significantly different from each other and was more resembling with their respective donor. RNA-sequencing revealed that, in comparison with PostM group, PreM group showed a foregoing pro-steatotic transcriptional response in liver featuring by the repression of lipid beta-oxidation and the activation of lipid absorption and cholesterol uptake before the pathology of liver steatosis. Moreover, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), which was repressed in PreM group, may act as crucial regulator of the hepatic transcriptional profile of lipid metabolism between two groups. Our results show that gut microbiota from a genetically obese human promotes the onset of liver steatosis by impacting hepatic transcriptional profile of lipid metabolism in mice. This adds new evidence that gut microbiota may play a causative role in the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	30079055
The role of iron in hepatic inflammation and hepatocellular carcinoma.	Iron is an essential for organisms and the liver plays a major role in its storage. In pathologic conditions, where iron absorption from the intestine or iron uptake into the hepatocytes is increased, excess iron accumulates in the hepatocytes, leading to hepatocyte injury through the production of free radicals. Iron exerts its toxicity by catalyzing the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS causes cell injury by inducing damage to the lysosomal, cytoplasmic, nuclear and mitochondrial membranes, apoptosis through activation of the caspase cascade, and hyperoxidation of fatty chains. In this manuscript, we reviewed the articles regarding role of iron in hepatic inflammation and hepatocellular carcinoma.	30017991
Hypoxic Signaling and Cholesterol Lipotoxicity in Fatty Liver Disease Progression.	Cholesterol is the only lipid whose absorption in the gastrointestinal tract is limited by gate-keeping transporters and efflux mechanisms, preventing its rapid absorption and accumulation in the liver and blood vessels. In this review, I explored the current data regarding cholesterol accumulation in liver cells and key mechanisms in cholesterol-induced fatty liver disease associated with the activation of deleterious hypoxic and nitric oxide signal transduction pathways. Although nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects both obese and nonobese individuals, the mechanism of NAFLD progression in lean individuals with healthy metabolism is puzzling. Lean NAFLD individuals exhibit normal metabolic responses, implying that liver damage is not associated with impaired metabolism per se and that direct lipotoxic effects are crucial for disease progression. Several redox and oxidant signaling pathways involving cholesterol are at play in fatty liver disease development. These include impairment of the mitochondrial and lysosomal function by cholesterol loading of the inner-cell membranes; formation of cholesterol crystals and hepatocyte degradation; and crown-like structures surrounding degrading hepatocytes, activating Kupffer cells, and evoking inflammation. The current review focuses on the induction of liver inflammation, fibrosis, and steatosis by free cholesterol via the hypoxia-inducible factor 1	29955245
Miglitol attenuates non-alcoholic steatohepatitis in diabetic patients.	Postprandial hyperglycemia is frequently accompanied by non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and steatohepatitis (NASH). Although α-glucosidase inhibitors (αGIs) can slow glucose absorption from the intestine and suppress the surge of circulating glucose concentration after meals, it remains unclear whether αGIs are also beneficial for NASH. The aim of this prospective study was to examine the efficacy and safety of miglitol, a typical αGI, for NASH.	29935004
Risk factors for development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease after pancreatoduodenectomy.	Considerable attention has been focused on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) which occasionally develops after pancreatoduodenectomy (PD). The present study aimed to clarify the prevalence, sequential change in properties and risk factors for NAFLD development after PD. We enrolled 196 patients who underwent PD and a computed tomography (CT) scan 1 month, 6 months and 1 year after surgery. NAFLD was defined as a liver-to-spleen attenuation ratio on plain CT of <0.9. We compared various clinical factors between the NAFLD group and the control group. Individual prevalence of NAFLD at 1 month, 6 months and 1 year after surgery was 12%, 21% and 15%. Significantly different factors by univariate analysis were as follows: 1 month: age, sex, total protein (TP), total cholesterol (TC) and copper (Cu); 6 months: sex, disease, surgical method, portal vein resection (PVR), frequency of defecation, TC and Cu; 1 year: age, sex, disease, surgical method, PVR, frequency of defecation, TP and Cu. Risk factors by multivariate analysis were as follows: 1 month: not elderly age, female sex and a decrease in Cu; 6 months: female sex and a decrease in Cu; 1 year: a decrease in Cu. NAFLD after PD frequently developed in women with a decrease in serum Cu and was influenced by various factors related to poor digestion and absorption associated with pancreatic exocrine insufficiency.	29863141
Exercising the hepatobiliary-gut axis. The impact of physical activity performance.	Physical inactivity puts the populations at risk of several health problems, while regular physical activity brings beneficial effects on cardiovascular disease, mortality and other health outcomes, including obesity, glycaemic control and insulin resistance. The hepatobiliary tract is greatly involved in several metabolic aspects which include digestion and absorption of nutrients in concert with intestinal motility, bile acid secretion and flow across the enterohepatic circulation and intestinal microbiota. Several metabolic abnormalities, including nonalcoholic fatty liver as well as cholesterol cholelithiasis, represent two conditions explained by changes of the aforementioned pathways.	29797516
Neurotensin Is a Lipid-Induced Gastrointestinal Peptide Associated with Visceral Adipose Tissue Inflammation in Obesity.	Neurotensin (NT) is a 13-amino acid peptide localized in the neuroendocrine cells of the small intestine, which promotes fat absorption and fatty acids translocation in response to lipid ingestion. NT-knock-out mice fed with a high-fat diet are protected from obesity, fatty liver, and the development of insulin-resistance. In humans, higher plasma levels of pro-NT, which is the stable circulating precursor of NT, predict obesity, type 2 diabetes (T2D), and cardiovascular disease. In obesity, the presence of visceral adipose tissue (VAT) inflammation leads to unfavorable metabolic outcomes and is associated with the development of T2D and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). In this study, we investigated the relationship between plasma pro-NT levels and the presence of VAT inflammation in biopsies from 40 morbidly obese subjects undergoing bariatric surgery. We demonstrated that higher proNT levels are significantly associated with greater macrophages infiltration, HIF-1&alpha;, WISP-1, and UNC5B expression in VAT (all 	29690638
Increased Plasma Proneurotensin Levels Identify NAFLD in Adults With and Without Type 2 Diabetes.	Neurotensin (NT), an intestinal peptide released by fat ingestion, promotes lipid absorption; higher circulating NT levels are associated with type 2 diabetes (T2D), obesity, and cardiovascular disease. Whether NT is related to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) has not been fully investigated.	29590379
Ferroportin Expression in Adipocytes Does Not Contribute to Iron Homeostasis or Metabolic Responses to a High Calorie Diet.	Iron has an increasingly recognized role in the regulation of adipose tissue function, including the expression of adipokines involved in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. The cellular iron exporter, ferroportin, has been proposed as being a key determinant of adipocyte iron homeostasis.	29552621
Therapeutic modulation of the bile acid pool by Cyp8b1 knockdown protects against nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in mice.	Bile acids (BAs) are surfactant molecules that regulate the intestinal absorption of lipids. Thus, the modulation of BAs represents a potential therapy for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which is characterized by hepatic accumulation of fat and is a major cause of liver disease worldwide. Cyp8b1 is a critical modulator of the hydrophobicity index of the BA pool. As a therapeutic proof of concept, we aimed to determine the impact of Cyp8b1 inhibition in vivo on BA pool composition and as protection against NAFLD. Inhibition of Cyp8b1 expression in mice led to a remodeling of the BA pool, which altered its signaling properties and decreased intestinal fat absorption. In a model of cholesterol-induced NAFLD, Cyp8b1 knockdown significantly decreased steatosis and hepatic lipid content, which has been associated with an increase in fecal lipid and BA excretion. Moreover, inhibition of Cyp8b1 not only decreased hepatic lipid accumulation, but also resulted in the clearance of previously accumulated hepatic cholesterol, which led to a regression in hepatic steatosis. Taken together, our data demonstrate that Cyp8b1 inhibition is a viable therapeutic target of crucial interest for metabolic diseases, such as NAFLD.-Chevre, R., Trigueros-Motos, L., Castaño, D., Chua, T., Corlianò, M., Patankar, J. V., Sng, L., Sim, L., Juin, T. L., Carissimo, G., Ng, L. F. P., Yi, C. N. J., Eliathamby, C. C., Groen, A. K., Hayden, M. R., Singaraja, R. R. Therapeutic modulation of the bile acid pool by Cyp8b1 knockdown protects against nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in mice.	29481310
Duodenal Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 expression was negatively correlated with liver X receptor expression in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Intestinal cholesterol absorption includes intestinal Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 (NPC1L1) and is an important target pathway in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). We investigated the expression of NPC1L1 and its correlation with liver X receptor (LXR) expression in peripheral mononuclear (PMN) cells in patients with NAFLD.	29466845
Prediction of carotid intima-media thickness in obese patients with low prevalence of comorbidities by serum copper bioavailability.	Western societies, with growing prevalence, suffer from various metabolic diseases like obesity and hepatic steatosis, better defined as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, or cardiovascular (CV) diseases that are strictly linked to each other. The association of their occurrence with the altered homeostasis of metals is an intriguing issue. Copper in particular was identified as key player in various metabolic derangements. On these bases, we aimed at investigating the possible association of serum copper levels with an indicator of early CV risk as the intima-media thickness (IMT) of carotid artery and its predictive value in a selected population of obese patients.	29405466
Improvement of Diet-induced Obesity by Ingestion of Mushroom Chitosan Prepared from Flammulina velutipes.	The anti-obesity effects of mushroom chitosan prepared from Flammulina velutipes were investigated using an animal model with diet-induced obesity. In this study, 5-week-old imprinting control region (ICR) mice were divided into six groups of 10 mice each and fed different diets based on the MF powdered diet (standard diet) for 6 weeks: standard diet control group, high-fat diet control group (induced dietary obesity) consisting of the standard diet and 20% lard, and mushroom chitosan groups consisting of the high-fat diet with mushroom chitosan added at 100, 500, 1,000, and 2,000 mg/kg body weight. On the final day of the experiment, mean body weight was 39.1 g in the high-fat control group and 36.3 g in the 2,000 mg/kg mushroom chitosan group, compared to 35.8 g in the standard diet control group. In the mushroom chitosan groups, a dose-dependent suppression of weight gain and marked improvements in serum triglycerides, total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and HDL-cholesterol were found. The mushroom chitosan groups showed fewer and smaller fat deposits in liver cells than the high-fat diet control group, and liver weight was significantly reduced. Glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) and glutamate pyruvic transaminase (GPT), which are indices of the hepatic function, all showed dose-dependent improvement with mushroom chitosan administration. These results suggested that mushroom chitosan acts to suppress enlargement of the liver from fat deposition resulting from a high-fat diet and to restore hepatic function. The lipid content of feces showed a marked increase correlated with the mushroom chitosan dose. These findings suggest the potential use of mushroom chitosan as a functional food ingredient that contributes to the prevention or improvement of dietary obesity by inhibiting digestion and absorption of fats in the digestive tract and simultaneously promotes lipolysis in adipocytes.	29367486
Disturbed Vitamin A Metabolism in Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD).	Vitamin A is required for important physiological processes, including embryogenesis, vision, cell proliferation and differentiation, immune regulation, and glucose and lipid metabolism. Many of vitamin A's functions are executed through retinoic acids that activate transcriptional networks controlled by retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and retinoid X receptors (RXRs).The liver plays a central role in vitamin A metabolism: (1) it produces bile supporting efficient intestinal absorption of fat-soluble nutrients like vitamin A; (2) it produces retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4) that distributes vitamin A, as retinol, to peripheral tissues; and (3) it harbors the largest body supply of vitamin A, mostly as retinyl esters, in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). In times of inadequate dietary intake, the liver maintains stable circulating retinol levels of approximately 2 μmol/L, sufficient to provide the body with this vitamin for months. Liver diseases, in particular those leading to fibrosis and cirrhosis, are associated with impaired vitamin A homeostasis and may lead to vitamin A deficiency. Liver injury triggers HSCs to transdifferentiate to myofibroblasts that produce excessive amounts of extracellular matrix, leading to fibrosis. HSCs lose the retinyl ester stores in this process, ultimately leading to vitamin A deficiency. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome and is a spectrum of conditions ranging from benign hepatic steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH); it may progress to cirrhosis and liver cancer. NASH is projected to be the main cause of liver failure in the near future. Retinoic acids are key regulators of glucose and lipid metabolism in the liver and adipose tissue, but it is unknown whether impaired vitamin A homeostasis contributes to or suppresses the development of NAFLD. A genetic variant of patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing 3 (PNPLA3-I148M) is the most prominent heritable factor associated with NAFLD. Interestingly, PNPLA3 harbors retinyl ester hydrolase activity and PNPLA3-I148M is associated with low serum retinol level, but enhanced retinyl esters in the liver of NAFLD patients. Low circulating retinol in NAFLD may therefore not reflect true "vitamin A deficiency", but rather disturbed vitamin A metabolism. Here, we summarize current knowledge about vitamin A metabolism in NAFLD and its putative role in the progression of liver disease, as well as the therapeutic potential of vitamin A metabolites.	29286303
[Research progress of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of total glucosides of peony in hepatoprotective effects].	Total glucosides of peony (TGP), containing the effective components of paeoniflorin (Pae), albiflorin (Alb) and so on, are effective parts of Radix Paeoniae Alba. And it possesses extensive pharmacological actions, one of which is hepatoprotective effect. In recent years, abundant of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics research of TGP in hepatoprotective effects have been performed. However, the relative medicine of TGP in hepatoprotective effect has not been developed for clinical application. In order to provide reference for the development and rational clinical application of TGP, the research progresses of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of TGP in hepatoprotective effect were summarized in this paper. Pharmacokinetics research has clarified the process of absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of TGP in vivo, and liver injury disease can significantly influence its metabolic processes. Pharmacodynamics studies suggested that TGP can protect against acute liver injury, non-alcoholic fatty liver diseases (NAFLD), chronic liver fibrosis and liver cancer. However, the action mechanism and in vivo process about hepatoprotective effects of TGP have not been clearly revealed. How liver injury influences the metabolism of TGP and its integrated regulation through multiple targets need to be further studied. The combined pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics studies should be performed in favour of medicine development and clinical application of TGP in hepatoprotective effects.	29243418
TM6SF2: A novel target for plasma lipid regulation.	Transmembrane 6 superfamily 2 (TM6SF2), a gene identified at the locus 19p12, has been recognized to regulate plasma lipids. Here, we provide an overview of the roles of TM6SF2 as a novel target for plasma lipid regulation. We first review the association of TM6SF2 variant with plasma lipid traits, cardiovascular disease (CVD) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Then, we present an overview about the in vivo validation of TM6SF2 as a regulator of plasma lipid levels using mice, with overexpression or knockdown/knockout of TM6SF2. Thereafter, we discuss the mechanisms underlying TM6SF2 regulation of lipid metabolism involving intestinal cholesterol absorption and hepatic cholesterol biosynthesis and transport. In conclusion, increasing evidence suggests that TM6SF2 may be a major regulator of plasma lipid levels and become a therapeutic target in cardiovascular disease.	29232562
Role of Bile Acids in Metabolic Control.	Bile acids are endocrine molecules that in addition to facilitating the absorption of fat-soluble nutrients regulate numerous metabolic processes, including glucose, lipid, and energy homeostasis. The signaling actions of bile acids are mediated through specific bile-acid-activated nuclear and membrane-bound receptors. These receptors are not only expressed by tissues within the enterohepatic circulation such as the liver and the intestine, but also in other organs where bile acids mediate their systemic actions. In this review, we discuss bile acid signaling and the interplay with the gut microbiota in the pathophysiology of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and the role of surgical and pharmacological interventions on bile acid profiles and metabolism.	29195686
Genistein Ameliorates Fat Accumulation Through AMPK Activation in Fatty Acid-Induced BRL Cells.	Genstein is the most abundant phytoestrogen in soybean that was reported to play positive roles in menopausal syndrome and metabolic syndrome. In the present study, we investigated the effects and potential mechanisms of genistein against progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in BRL cells treated with fatty acid mixture (oleate/palmitate, 2:1 ratio). Our data demonstrated that genistein remarkably improved fatty acid mixture-induced hepatocelluler fat accumulation, inhibited upregulation of genes expression related to fatty acid synthesis, and derepressed those associated with fatty acid oxidation. In addition, the results displayed that genistein promoted the phosphorylation of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) suppressed by fatty acid, which were significantly weakened by compound C, an AMPK inhibitor. Taken all together, genistein is capable to ameliorate fat accumulation through regulation of fatty acid metabolism mediated by AMPK activation in BRL cells. Further investigations are needed to verify the protective effects of genistein on NAFLD model in in vivo animal study or in vitro human cell lines along with absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion studies of genistein.	29125642
[Association between intestinal flora imbalance and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease].	Gut Microbiota as a Therapeutic Target for Metabolic Disorders.	Gut microbiota play a vital role not only in the digestion and absorption of nutrients, but also in homeostatic maintenance of host immunity, metabolism and the gut barrier. Recent evidence suggests that gut microbiota alterations contribute to the pathogenesis of metabolic disorders.	28990516
Gut microbiota and the liver.	Nowadays liver diseases represent one of major healthy problems in the world in terms of morbidity and mortality. The high prevalence of liver pathologies represents the key point to understand the necessity to identify the pathogenetic mechanisms that support these disorders in order to nurse them. Alterations of intestinal microbiota seem to play an important role in induction and promotion of liver damage progression, in addition to direct injury resulting from different causal agents. Gut microbiota is considered both as a promoting factor and as a potential therapeutic target of a large number of liver pathologies due to the connection between intestine and liver: the gut-liver axis. This connection influences absorption and deposition of nutrients into the liver, but also induces the activation of toll-like receptors due to the passage of pathogen-associated molecular patterns in the portal blood and therefore may start both the development of liver damage and its consequent progression to more advanced stages, including cirrhosis and hepatocarcinoma. The gut liver axis also includes the intestinal permeability (IP) degree. It is very variable and interconnected to several factors, most of them dependent from gut microbiota, that is the "lead" in the control of IP. This revue is aimed to report the more recent knowledges about gut microbiota and chronic liver disease, from liver steatosis to cirrhosis and its complications, including hepatocellular carcinoma. For these reasons, it could be useful to intervene, through suitable therapeutic approaches, on the interruption of mechanisms that underlie dysbiosis, IP increase, activation of liver inflammasome, hepatic stellate cells and hepatocarcinogenic processes in order to reduce the liver damage.	28927250
Blood lead level is associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in the Yangtze River Delta region of China in the context of rapid urbanization.	China has undergone rapid urbanization in the past three decades. We aimed to report blood lead level (B-Pb) in the most rapidly urbanized Yangtze River Delta Region of China, and explore the association B-Pb and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).	28859656
Resveratrol improves high-fat diet induced fatty liver and insulin resistance by concomitantly inhibiting proteolytic cleavage of sterol regulatory element-binding proteins, free fatty acid oxidation, and intestinal triglyceride absorption.	Resveratrol (RES) has the ability to ameliorate nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and the mechanism remains unclear. Hence, using high-fat diet (HFD) obese rat model, we investigated the effect of a low dose of RES (20 mg/kg) on the hepatic sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBPs) - lipogenesis pathway, enzymes involved in β-oxidation and activity of pancreatic lipase. Four groups of rats (n = 8) of control (12% of calories as fat) and HFD (40% of calories as fat) were administered orally with either normal saline as a vehicle or RES as a concomitant treatment for 8 weeks on a daily basis. Then, various biochemical, histological, and molecular experiments were carried out. RES prevented the development and progression of NAFLD and significantly improved insulin sensitivity through (1) inhibiting the proteolytic cleavage of SREBPs-1 and SREBPs-2 without affecting their precursor mRNA or protein levels, (2) inhibiting free fatty acid β-oxidation and generation of reactive oxygen species through significant inhibition of CPT-1 and UCP-2, and (3) decreasing activity of pancreatic lipase in vivo and in vitro. In conclusion, our findings are the first in the literature to show new mechanisms of the hepatoprotective effect of RES against HFD induced NAFLD in rats.	28777914
Nanoliposome improves inhibitory effects of naringenin on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in mice.	To prepare naringenin nanoliposome (NRG-Nanolipo) and investigate its inhibitory effects on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).	28718703
Dietary salecan reverts partially the metabolic gene expressions and NMR-based metabolomic profiles from high-fat-diet-induced obese rats.	Previous studies suggest that dietary salecan (a water-soluble β-glucan) effectively reduces high-fat-diet-induced adiposity through disturbing bile-acid-promoted emulsification in mice. However, the effects of salecan on metabolic genes and metabolites involved in lipid accumulation are mostly unknown. Here, we confirmed that dietary 3% and 6% salecan for 4 weeks markedly decreased fat accumulation in liver and adipose tissue in high-fat-diet rats, displaying a decrease in mRNA levels of SREBP1-C, FAS, SCD1 and ACC1 involved in de novo lipogenesis and a reduction of levels of GPAT1, DGAT1 and DGAT2 related to triglyceride synthesis. Dietary salecan also increased the mRNA levels of PPARα and CYP7A1, which are related to fatty acid oxidation and cholesterol decomposition, respectively. In the 	28549240
The role of bile acids in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is growing in prevalence worldwide. It is marked by the presence of macrosteatosis on liver histology but is often clinically asymptomatic. However, it can progress into nonalcoholic steatohepatitis which is a more severe form of liver disease characterized by inflammation and fibrosis. Further progression leads to cirrhosis, which predisposes patients to hepatocellular carcinoma or liver failure. The mechanism by which simple steatosis progresses to steatohepatitis is not entirely clear. However, multiple pathways have been proposed. A common link amongst many of these pathways is disruption of the homeostasis of bile acids. Other than aiding in the absorption of lipids and lipid-soluble vitamins, bile acids act as ligands. For example, they bind to farnesoid X receptor, which is critically involved in many of the pathways responsible for maintaining bile acid, glucose, and lipid homeostasis. Alterations to these pathways can lead to dysregulation of energy balance and increased inflammation and fibrosis. Repeated insults over time may be the key to development of steatohepatitis. For this reason, current drug therapies target aspects of these pathways to try to reduce and halt inflammation and fibrosis. This review will focus on the role of bile acids in these various pathways and how changes in these pathways may result in steatohepatitis. While there is no approved pharmaceutical treatment for either hepatic steatosis or steatohepatitis, this review will also touch upon the multitude of potential therapies.	28442273
[The intestinal microbiome and metabolic diseases : From obesity to diabetes and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis].	The intestinal microbiome consists of about 10 million genes, many of which encode digestive enzymes. This explains why animal and human experiments revealed that the intestinal microbiome adapts to food intake and optimizes energy harvest from food. This function is considered beneficial in states of lack of food, but following overnutrition, it might support the development of obesity.	28432400
Dietary sphingolipids: potential for management of dyslipidemia and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	The development of therapeutic approaches aimed at reducing inflammation, improving lipid metabolism, and preventing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease holds significant potential in the management of obesity-associated disease. In this review, the recent basic science and clinical research examining dietary sphingolipid intake and the prevention of dyslipidemia and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is summarized. Dietary sphingolipids have been shown to dose-dependently reduce the acute intestinal absorption of cholesterol, triglycerides, and fatty acids in rodents. Overall, studies feeding dietary sphingolipids to rodents typically show reductions in serum lipids. Furthermore, these hypolipidemic effects are also observed in most human studies, although the magnitude of such effects is typically smaller. Dietary sphingolipids also appear useful in preventing hepatic lipid uptake and accumulation and have shown benefits in preventing hepatic steatosis in rodent models. Dietary sphingolipids may affect the gut-liver axis by preventing the translocation of gut bacteria-derived lipopolysaccharide and/or inhibiting its proinflammatory effects. Current evidence from preclinical studies indicates that dietary sphingolipids have lipid-lowering and anti-inflammatory properties, although their potential to prevent human chronic disease has not been fully explored. It will be important to determine if such effects seen in cell and animal models translate to humans. More research is warranted to define how dietary sphingolipids influence lipid metabolism and inflammation.	28383715
Effect of miglitol on the suppression of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis development and improvement of the gut environment in a rodent model.	The gut environment has been considered to play a role in the development of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). α-glucosidase inhibitors (α-GIs) delay carbohydrate absorption and may change the gut environment. We considered that the protective effect of α-GIs against NASH development is related to changes in the gut environment and thus investigated the effects of miglitol, an α-GI, on NASH development and the gut environment.	28349245
APD668, a G protein-coupled receptor 119 agonist improves fat tolerance and attenuates fatty liver in high-trans fat diet induced steatohepatitis model in C57BL/6 mice.	G-protein coupled receptor 119 (GPR119) receptor is a rhodopsin-like, class A Gαs-coupled receptor, predominantly expressed in pancreatic islet cells and intestinal entero-endocrine cells. GPR119 has been emerged as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of dyslipidemia in type 2 diabetes. In this study, we investigated the effect of APD668, a GPR119 agonist alone and in combination with linagliptin, a DPPIV inhibitor on oral fat tolerance test. Our findings demonstrate that APD668, a GPR119 agonist inhibits the intestinal triglyceride absorption after acute fat load in mice. Single dose administration of APD668 increases incretin secretion and enhances total PYY levels in presence of fat load in mice. We found that, the anti-dyslipidemic action of APD668 was reversed in presence of exendin-3 in oral fat tolerance test. In addition, our results showed that exendin-3 (9-39) failed to block the effect of APD668 on gastric emptying indicating that gastric emptying effects of APD668 are indeed mediated through GPR119 receptor dependent mechanism. Combined administration of APD668 and linagliptin significantly increased plasma active GLP-1 levels in-vivo and showed improvement in fat tolerance. However, APD668 failed to show anti-dyslipidemic activity in tyloxapol-induced hyperlipidemia in mice. Furthermore, we investigated the chronic effects of APD668 on hepatic steatosis in high trans-fat diet fed steatohepatitis model in mice. Oral administration of APD668 in HTF diet fed mice ameliorated hepatic endpoints such as plasma ALT, AST, liver weight and steatosis. These findings suggest that GPR119 agonists may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of dyslipidemia and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.	28274625
Ezetimibe for the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: A meta-analysis.	Several studies on the efficacy of ezetimibe, a potent inhibitor of cholesterol absorption, in treating non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) have been published; however, the results are inconsistent. We undertook a meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy of ezetimibe in treating NAFLD and NASH.	28257594
The Phytocomplex from Fucus vesiculosus and Ascophyllum nodosum Controls Postprandial Plasma Glucose Levels: An In Vitro and In Vivo Study in a Mouse Model of NASH.	Edible seaweeds have been consumed by Asian coastal communities since ancient times. 	28212301
Dietary and commercialized fructose: Sweet or sour?	Metabolic syndrome and diabetes are main health problems of modern life in the twenty-first century. Alarming ratios of global prevalence lead to conduct more and more researches about etiological factors and pathogenesis. Disease mechanism is elementary for advancing more efficient and practicable treatment methods. Concurrent increase in both fructose consumption with Western diet and metabolic syndrome has revealed fructose hypothesis that suggests fructose as one of etiological factor of metabolic syndrome (insulin resistance, central obesity, hypertension, etc.). Recent studies have increasingly lightened the unknowns about role of fructose on pathogenesis. This review discusses fructose hypothesis by exploring current studies and their results in wide perspective. Potential mechanisms covering low-grade inflammation or de novo lipogenesis, etc., in the development of insulin resistance and obesity are explained. Clinical trials have revealed connection of fructose-induced hyperuricemia with insulin resistance and chronic inflammatory state leading to hepatosteatosis or obesity. Further, novel hypothesizes suggesting role of fructose-induced modifications in epigenetics, gut microbiota and oxidative stress on disease pathogenesis are reviewed based on recent clinical trials. More innovative theories including fructose-induced malignancy; decreased satiety feeling, and unfavorable bone health are argued covering fructose-induced neurotransmitter changes in central nervous system, more aggressive malignancy phenotype and impaired calcium absorption.	28210913
Ezetimibe reduces cholesterol content and NF-kappaB activation in liver but not in intestinal tissue in guinea pigs.	Statins (HMG CoA reductase inhibitors), in addition to reducing circulating cholesterol and incidence of coronary heart disease, also have pleiotropic, anti-inflammatory effects. Patients with chronic liver diseases, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) or hepatitis C are often excluded from statin therapy because of adverse effects in a small cohort of patients despite increased cardiovascular risk cholesterol. Ezetimibe, which inhibits cholesterol absorption by inhibition of Niemann-Pick C1 like 1 (NPC1L1) protein in the brush border of intestinal cells, has been suggested as a new therapeutic option in these patients.	28167864
Upregulated absorption of dietary palmitic acids with changes in intestinal transporters in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).	Palmitic acid is an important risk factor for the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), but changes in palmitic acid intestinal absorption in NASH are unclear. The aim of this study was to clarify changes in palmitic acid intestinal absorption and their association with the pathogenesis of NASH.	28062946
Gut epithelial barrier markers in patients with obstructive sleep apnea.	Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is now being recognized as an additional contributing factor to the pathogenesis of obesity-related comorbidities. At the same time, there is now increasing evidence to suggest that intestinal wall permeability plays a role in the development of metabolic syndrome. In the present study, circulating zonulin and fatty acid binding protein (I-FABP) were measured in association with metabolic, hepatic, and inflammatory parameters.	28007354
Strain- and time-dependent alterations in hepatic iron metabolism in a murine model of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is a common liver disease that is often accompanied by dysregulated iron metabolism. The aim of the study was to test the hypothesis that aberrant iron metabolism in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is modulated by genetic susceptibility to inflammation and oxidative stress. Hepatic histology and iron content were assessed in 3 inbred strains of mice (C57BL/6, BALB/c, and C3H/HeJ) fed an atherogenic diet (AD). Hepatic expression of genes relevant to iron metabolism, inflammation, and oxidative stress were quantitated by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. At 6 weeks on the AD, histologic injury and induction of inflammatory and oxidative stress-associated gene expression were most pronounced in C57BL/6. At 18 weeks on the AD, these parameters were similar in C57BL/6 and BALB/c. Atherogenic diet-fed C3H/HeJ showed milder responses at both time points. The AD was associated with decreased hepatic iron concentrations in all strains at 6 and 18 weeks. The decrease in hepatic iron concentrations did not correlate with changes in hepcidin expression and was not associated with altered expression of iron transporters. These findings are similar to those observed in models of obesity-induced steatosis and indicate that hepatic steatosis can be associated with depletion of iron stores that is not explained by upregulation of hepcidin expression by inflammation.	27935134
Low hepatic copper content and PNPLA3 polymorphism in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in patients without metabolic syndrome.	The pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is multifactorial including metabolic, genetic (e.g. PNPLA3 [patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing 3 gene]), viral factors and drugs. Besides, there is evidence for a role of copper deficiency. Aim of the study was to evaluate the role of hepatic copper content, PNPLA3 in NAFLD patients with and without metabolic syndrome (MetS).	27908400
Serum Plant Sterols Associate with Gallstone Disease Independent of Weight Loss and Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.	Gallstone disease (GD) has been associated with low serum levels of plant sterols. We evaluated the impact of laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) on the association of GD with low levels of serum plant sterols.	27812789
Gut Microbiota and the Liver: A Tale of 2 Cities: A Narrative View in 2 Acts.	Microbes are mostly important for the digestion of food, the absorption of some micronutrients, and the production of vitamins. The microbiota stimulates lymphoid structures in the gastrointestinal mucosa and decrease pathogens by competing for nutrients and space. Bacterial translocation is defined as the escape of gut bacteria and their products through the intestinal mucosa to the outside of the intestine as portovenous or systemic circulation. This is induced by a leaky gut barrier. There is evidence for a role of intestinal permeability in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. In the liver, bacterial products can bind to their specific pathogen recognition receptors on parenchymal and nonparenchymal cells, producing an inflammatory response and enhancing disease progression. When binding, bacterial products bind to their receptors, initiating intracellular signalling and inducing an inflammatory cascade, thus accelerating liver cell damage and fibrosis. However, the liver can also increase gut permeability, producing proinflammatory cytokines, and reversing them into the blood stream. Modification of the gut microbiota could lead to benefit in patients with liver disease. Nonabsorbable antibiotics (rifaximin) prevent and relieve overt encephalopathy. Probiotics alone are not capable of turning back overt encephalopathy, but could prevent its development. There is some evidence that probiotics could relent the progression of nonalcoholic liver disease, and possibly reverse steatosis. Antibiotics, such as fluoroquinolones, reduce the risk of development of the first episode of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and mortality in cirrhotic patients.	27741171
Cardiovascular Risk Reduction in Patients with Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Potential Role of Ezetimibe.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is widely considered to be the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome and is closely linked to dyslipidemia, obesity, and insulin resistance. Patients with NAFLD have increased mortality when compared to the general population, primarily related to cardiovascular disease or malignancy. The biologic mechanisms that link NAFLD to cardiovascular disease include expansion of visceral adipose tissue, atherogenic dyslipidemia, impaired insulin signaling, systemic inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction. Currently, there are no approved therapies for NAFLD. It has recently been hypothesized that reducing the delivery of dietary cholesterol using the hypolipidemic agent, ezetimibe, could benefit patients with NAFLD. By potently inhibiting the Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1) sterol receptor on intestinal enterocytes and within the liver, ezetimibe blocks exogenous cholesterol absorption and has been shown to improve biochemical markers of NAFLD, improve insulin sensitivity and decrease hepatic steatosis. This review summarizes the clinical and epidemiological evidence for the relationship between NAFLD and cardiovascular risk and examines the potential therapeutic role of ezetimibe.	27714510
Silybin counteracts lipid excess and oxidative stress in cultured steatotic hepatic cells.	To investigate in vitro the therapeutic effect and mechanisms of silybin in a cellular model of hepatic steatosis.	27468193
A computer model simulating human glucose absorption and metabolism in health and metabolic disease states.	A computer model designed to simulate integrated glucose-dependent changes in splanchnic blood flow with small intestinal glucose absorption, hormonal and incretin circulation and hepatic and systemic metabolism in health and metabolic diseases e.g. non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, (NAFLD), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, (NASH) and type 2 diabetes mellitus, (T2DM) demonstrates how when glucagon-like peptide-1, (GLP-1) is synchronously released into the splanchnic blood during intestinal glucose absorption, it stimulates superior mesenteric arterial (SMA) blood flow and by increasing passive intestinal glucose absorption, harmonizes absorption with its distribution and metabolism. GLP-1 also synergises insulin-dependent net hepatic glucose uptake (NHGU). When GLP-1 secretion is deficient post-prandial SMA blood flow is not increased and as NHGU is also reduced, hyperglycaemia follows. Portal venous glucose concentration is also raised, thereby retarding the passive component of intestinal glucose absorption.   Increased pre-hepatic sinusoidal resistance combined with portal hypertension leading to opening of intrahepatic portosystemic collateral vessels are NASH-related mechanical defects that alter the balance between splanchnic and systemic distributions of glucose, hormones and incretins.The model reveals the latent contribution of portosystemic shunting in development of metabolic disease. This diverts splanchnic blood content away from the hepatic sinuses to the systemic circulation, particularly during the glucose absorptive phase of digestion, resulting in inappropriate increases in insulin-dependent systemic glucose metabolism.  This hastens onset of hypoglycaemia and thence hyperglucagonaemia. The model reveals that low rates of GLP-1 secretion, frequently associated with T2DM and NASH, may be also be caused by splanchnic hypoglycaemia, rather than to intrinsic loss of incretin secretory capacity. These findings may have therapeutic implications on GLP-1 agonist or glucagon antagonist usage.	27347379
Novel function of histamine signaling via histamine receptors in cholesterol and bile acid metabolism: Histamine H2 receptor protects against nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	We have reported that the function of histamine and its receptors (HRs) has a close relationship with the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, much less is known regarding its pathogenic and molecular mechanism(s), including the early stage of hepatic and intestinal function for lipid and bile acid (BA) metabolism. We used H1R and H2R knockout mice (H1/2R-KO) to clarify those pivotal roles in cholesterol/BA metabolism, in which H1/2R-KO mice were separately fed a short-term 1% cholesterol or cholic acid (CA) diet. [(3) H]Cholesterol absorption study revealed that significantly enhanced accumulation occurred in the jejunum, blood and liver, but not in the feces, of H2R-KO mice, compared to wild-type and H1R-KO mice. Furthermore, four weeks after the high-cholesterol diet, the H2R-KO jejunum but not liver exhibited increased expressions of cholesterol transporters, consistent with higher plasma lipoprotein levels. Five days after CA diet, the H2R-KO mice showed significantly higher expressions of ileal BA-reabsorption and hepatic BA-efflux factors, corresponding to higher serum but lower fecal BA levels. The following long-term CA diets resulted in severe injury to the H2R-KO liver. Histamine/H2R signaling might have a protective role in the initial phase during NAFLD progression, correlated with cholesterol and BA metabolism in the liver/intestine.	27321390
[The study of biochemical mechanisms of mitochondrial dysfunction in rats' hepatocytes during experimental hyperhomocysteinemia].	Methionine is an essential proteinogenic amino acid found in many foods. During its metabolism homocysteine is formed. With elevated level of homocysteine in the blood--hyperhomocysteinemia--increased risk of developing certain diseases, such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, is associated. There is evidence that the homocysteine is able to reduce the effect of nitric oxide and induce mitochondrial dysfunction. The present study investigates the relationship of the functional state of the liver cells mitochondria and the level of nitric oxide metabolites in them in experimental hyperhomocysteinemia caused by excessive intake of methionine. The experiment was conducted on 17 male Wistar rats with an initial weight of 220-270 g, rats were divided into 2 groups. A 25%. suspension of methionine was administered (in a dose of 1.5 g of methionine per kg body weight) two times a day for 21 days intragastrically (by gavage) to rats of the first group (n=9) while instead of drinking water animals received a 1% aqueous solution of methionine. Drinks daily volume of methionine solution was 17.2 [15.5; 18.1] ml. In the experiment 8 animals were used, in which severe hyperhomocysteinemia (> 100 mmol/l) was developed. The second group (n = 8) served as a control. These rats were administered suspension base containing no methionine (10% Tween-80, 1% starch, 89% water). The total homocysteine concentration was measured in blood serum by ELISA. In the suspension of liver mitochondria total protein was measured by Lowry method; the concentration of NO metabolites by screening method; succinate dehydrogenase activity--under the reaction of hexacyanoferrate (III) potassium reduction; lactate dehydrogenase activity--by decrease of NADH concentration in the reaction of pyruvate's reduction; activity of H(+)-ATPase--by measuring the inorganic phosphate; superoxide dismutase--by inhibition of quercetin auto-oxidation, the level of Ca(2+)--by reaction with Arsenazo III. Oxidative modification of proteins was evaluated based on the reaction between carbonyl and imino groups of the amino acid residues oxidized with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine to form 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone having a specific absorption spectrum in the ultraviolet and visible regions of the spectrum. During three weeks of the experiment the body weight of rats treated with methionine increased from 246 (229; 262) to 302 (283; 311) g, and of control animals--from 256 (231; 264) to 307 (275; 314) g. The difference in body weight gain was not statistically significant. In the study it was revealed that intragastric administration of the methionine for 3 weeks with the addition of this amino acid in the drinking water caused hyperhomocysteinemia. On the one hand it lead to an intensification of energy metabolism in rat liver mitochondria, resulted in increase of lactate dehydrogenase (by 63.0%), succinate dehydrogenase (by 76.1%) and H(+) -ATPase (by 62.5%) activities. On the other hand it lead to the disruption of the Ca2+ deposit (Ca2+ level in mitochondria was reduced by 68.2%) and to enhance of mitochondrial protein carbonylation (by 52.2%) with a predominance of the aggregation process and a reduction of the reserve-adaptive capacity, despite an increase in superoxide dismutase activity (by 87.7%). The reason for these changes in the mitochondria can be the decrease in production of nitric oxide (the level of its metabolites decreased by 21.3%).	27228698
Components of Boiogito Suppress the Progression of Hypercholesterolemia and Fatty Liver Induced by High-Cholesterol Diet in Rats.	Ogi, one main component of boiogito (BOT), is reported to have an effect on hypercholesterolemia and NAFLD. In this experiment, we examined effects of ogi on the progression of hypercholesterolemia and fatty liver induced by high-cholesterol diet in rats and compared with the effects of ogi combined with ginger or hesperidin.	27046953
Overexpression of Peroxiredoxin 4 Affects Intestinal Function in a Dietary Mouse Model of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.	Accumulating evidence has shown that methionine- and choline-deficient high fat (MCD+HF) diet induces the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), in which elevated reactive oxygen species play a crucial role. We have reported that peroxiredoxin 4 (PRDX4), a unique secretory member of the PRDX antioxidant family, protects against NAFLD progression. However, the detailed mechanism and potential effects on the intestinal function still remain unclear.	27035833
Hepcidin resistance in dysmetabolic iron overload.	Dysmetabolic iron overload syndrome (DIOS) is a frequent condition predisposing to metabolic, cardiovascular and hepatic damage, whose pathogenesis remains poorly defined. Aim of this study was to characterize iron metabolism in DIOS.	26998752
Acyl CoA synthetase 5 (ACSL5) ablation in mice increases energy expenditure and insulin sensitivity and delays fat absorption.	The family of acyl-CoA synthetase enzymes (ACSL) activates fatty acids within cells to generate long chain fatty acyl CoA (FACoA). The differing metabolic fates of FACoAs such as incorporation into neutral lipids, phospholipids, and oxidation pathways are differentially regulated by the ACSL isoforms. In vitro studies have suggested a role for ACSL5 in triglyceride synthesis; however, we have limited understanding of the in vivo actions of this ACSL isoform.	26977393
Insulin resistance, body composition, and fat distribution in obese children with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Overnutrition Determines LPS Regulation of Mycotoxin Induced Neurotoxicity in Neurodegenerative Diseases.	Chronic neurodegenerative diseases are now associated with obesity and diabetes and linked to the developing and developed world. Interests in healthy diets have escalated that may prevent neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. The global metabolic syndrome involves lipoprotein abnormalities and insulin resistance and is the major disorder for induction of neurological disease. The effects of bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) on dyslipidemia and NAFLD indicate that the clearance and metabolism of fungal mycotoxins are linked to hypercholesterolemia and amyloid beta oligomers. LPS and mycotoxins are associated with membrane lipid disturbances with effects on cholesterol interacting proteins, lipoprotein metabolism, and membrane apo E/amyloid beta interactions relevant to hypercholesterolemia with close connections to neurological diseases. The influence of diet on mycotoxin metabolism has accelerated with the close association between mycotoxin contamination from agricultural products such as apple juice, grains, alcohol, and coffee. Cholesterol efflux in lipoproteins and membrane cholesterol are determined by LPS with involvement of mycotoxin on amyloid beta metabolism. Nutritional interventions such as diets low in fat/carbohydrate/cholesterol have become of interest with relevance to low absorption of lipophilic LPS and mycotoxin into lipoproteins with rapid metabolism of mycotoxin to the liver with the prevention of neurodegeneration.	26690419
DSS colitis promotes tumorigenesis and fibrogenesis in a choline-deficient high-fat diet-induced NASH mouse model.	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) patients progress to liver cirrhosis and even hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Several lines of evidence indicate that accumulation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and disruption of gut microbiota play contributory roles in HCC. Moreover, in a dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis model in mice, a high-fat diet increases portal LPS level and promotes hepatic inflammation and fibrosis. However, this diet-induced NASH model requires at least 50 weeks for carcinogenesis. In this study, we sought to determine whether increased intestinal permeability would aggravate liver inflammation and fibrosis and accelerate tumorigenesis in a diet-induced NASH model. Mice were fed a choline-deficient high-fat (CDHF) diet for 4 or 12 weeks. The DSS group was fed CDHF and intermittently received 1% DSS in the drinking water. Exposure to DSS promoted mucosal changes such as crypt loss and increased the number of inflammatory cells in the colon. In the DSS group, portal LPS levels were elevated at 4 weeks, and the proportions of Clostridium cluster XI in the fecal microbiota were elevated. In addition, levels of serum transaminase, number of lobular inflammatory cells, F4/80 staining-positive area, and levels of inflammatory cytokines were all elevated in the DSS group. Liver histology in the DSS group revealed severe fibrosis at 12 weeks. Liver tumors were detected in the DSS group at 12 weeks, but not in the other groups. Thus, DSS administration promoted liver tumors in a CDHF diet-induced NASH mouse over the short term, suggesting that the induction of intestinal inflammation and gut disruption of microbiota in NASH promote hepatic tumorigenesis.	26682925
Bile acids and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2 in hepatic lipid metabolism.	The liver is the central organ involved in lipid metabolism. Dyslipidemia and its related disorders, including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), obesity and other metabolic diseases, are of increasing public health concern due to their increasing prevalence in the population. Besides their well-characterized functions in cholesterol homoeostasis and nutrient absorption, bile acids are also important metabolic regulators and function as signaling hormones by activating specific nuclear receptors, G-protein coupled receptors, and multiple signaling pathways. Recent studies identified a new signaling pathway by which conjugated bile acids (CBA) activate the extracellular regulated protein kinases (ERK1/2) and protein kinase B (AKT) signaling pathway via sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2 (S1PR2). CBA-induced activation of S1PR2 is a key regulator of sphingosine kinase 2 (SphK2) and hepatic gene expression. This review focuses on recent findings related to the role of bile acids/S1PR2-mediated signaling pathways in regulating hepatic lipid metabolism.	26579441
Iron absorption in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and dysmetabolic iron overload syndrome.	2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-Dioxin Alters Lipid Metabolism and Depletes Immune Cell Populations in the Jejunum of C57BL/6 Mice.	2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a potent aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonist that elicits dose-dependent hepatic fat accumulation and inflammation that can progress to steatohepatitis. To investigate intestine-liver interactions that contribute to TCDD-elicited steatohepatitis, we examined the dose-dependent effects of TCDD (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1, 3, 10, or 30 µg/kg) on jejunal epithelial gene expression in C57BL/6 mice orally gavaged every 4 days for 28 days. Agilent 4x44K whole-genome microarray analysis of the jejunal epithelium identified 439 differentially expressed genes (|fold change| ≥ 1.5, P1(t) ≥ 0.999) across 1 or more doses, many related to lipid metabolism and immune system processes. TCDD-elicited differentially expressed genes were associated with lipolysis, fatty acid/cholesterol absorption and transport, the Kennedy pathway, and retinol metabolism, consistent with increased hepatic fat accumulation. Moreover, several major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes (H2-Aa, H2-Ab1, H2-DMb1, Cd74) were repressed, coincident with decreased macrophage and dendritic cell levels in the lamina propria, suggesting migration of antigen-presenting cells out of the intestine. In contrast, hepatic RNA-Seq analysis identified increased expression of MHC class II genes, as well as chemokines and chemokine receptors involved in macrophage recruitment (Ccr1, Ccr5, Ccl5, Cx3cr1), consistent with hepatic F4/80 labeling and macrophage infiltration into the liver. Collectively, these results suggest TCDD elicits changes that support hepatic lipid accumulation, macrophage migration, and the progression of hepatic steatosis to steatohepatitis.	26377647
Identification of compounds from high-fat and extra virgin olive oil-supplemented diets in whole mouse liver extracts and isolated mitochondria using mass spectrometry.	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a fatty liver disorder that could be improved with extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) supplementation in diet. We propose the monitoring, in whole mouse liver extracts and in isolated mitochondria, of the absorption of compounds from three different diets: standard (CT), high-fat (HFD) and high-fat supplemented with EVOO (HFSO). Male mice were submitted to one of the following three diets: CT or HFD for 16 weeks or HFD for 8 weeks followed by additional 8 weeks with HFSO. Following this period, liver was extracted for histological evaluation, mitochondria isolation and mass spectrometry analyses. Diets, liver extracts and Percoll-purified mitochondria were analyzed using ESI-MS and the lipidomics approach. Morphological, histological and spectrometric results indicated a decrease in NASH severity with EVOO supplementation in comparison with animals maintained with HFD. Spectrometric data also demonstrated that some compounds presented on the diets are absorbed by the mitochondria. EVOO was shown to be a potential therapeutic alternative in food for NASH. Our results are in accordance with the proposition that the major factor that influences different responses to diets is their composition - and not only calories - especially when it comes to studies on obesity.	26349651
Targeting gut-liver axis for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: translational and clinical evidence.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is widely emerging as the most prevalent liver disorder and is associated with increased risk of liver-related and cardiovascular mortality. Recent experimental and clinical studies have revealed the pivotal role played by the alteration of gut-liver axis in the onset of fatty liver and related metabolic disturbances. Gut-liver cross talk is implicated not only in the impairment of lipid and glucose homeostasis leading to steatogenesis, but also in the initiation of inflammation and fibrogenesis, which characterize nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the evolving form of NAFLD. The gut microbiota has been recognized as the key player in the gut-liver liaison and because of its complexity can act as a villain or a victim. Gut microbiota not only influences absorption and disposal of nutrients to the liver, but also conditions hepatic inflammation by supplying toll-like receptor ligands, which can stimulate liver cells to produce proinflammatory cytokines. Thus, the modification of intestinal bacterial flora by specific probiotics has been proposed as a therapeutic approach for the treatment of NASH. In this review, we summarized the evidence regarding the role of gut-liver axis in the pathogenesis of NASH and discussed the potential therapeutic role of gut microbiota modulation in the clinical setting.	26318867
Fatty acid transport protein-2 inhibitor Grassofermata/CB5 protects cells against lipid accumulation and toxicity.	The inhibition of the fatty acid uptake into non-adipose tissues provides an attractive target for prevention of lipotoxicity leading to obesity-associated non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes. Fatty acid transport proteins (FATPs) are bifunctional proteins involved in the uptake and activation of fatty acids by esterification with coenzyme A. Here we characterize Grassofermata/CB5, previously identified as a fatty acid uptake inhibitor directed against HsFATP2. The compound was effective in inhibiting the uptake of fatty acids in the low micro-molar range (IC50 8-11 μM) and prevented palmitate-mediated lipid accumulation and cell death in cell lines that are models for intestines, liver, muscle and pancreas. In adipocytes, uptake inhibition was less effective (IC50 58 μM). Inhibition was specific for long chain fatty acids and was ineffective toward medium chain fatty acids, which are transported by diffusion. Kinetic analysis of Grassofermata-dependent FA transport inhibition verified a non-competitive mechanism. By comparison with Grassofermata, several atypical antipsychotic drugs previously implicated as inhibitors of FA uptake were ineffectual. In mice Grassofermata decreased absorption of (13)C-oleate demonstrating its potential as a therapeutic agent.	26284975
JTP-103237, a monoacylglycerol acyltransferase inhibitor, prevents fatty liver and suppresses both triglyceride synthesis and de novo lipogenesis.	Monoacyglycerol acyltransferases (MGATs) are known to play important roles in intestinal TG absorption. In contrast, the role of MGATs in the liver is still unclear. We investigated the effects of JTP-103237, a novel MGAT inhibitor, on hepatic MGAT activity and hepatic lipid metabolism.	26215699
Evaluating the safety of Liptruzet (ezetimibe and atorvastatin): what are the potential benefits beyond low-density lipoprotein cholesterol-lowering effect?	The combination of ezetimibe and atorvastatin (Liptruzet - referred to in this article as eze/ator), has recently been approved by the FDA for reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c) in patients with primary or mixed hyperlipidemia as in case of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. It helps block intestinal absorption of cholesterol and it inhibits the production of cholesterol in the liver.	26134926
Jejunal T Cell Inflammation in Human Obesity Correlates with Decreased Enterocyte Insulin Signaling.	In obesity, insulin resistance is linked to inflammation in several tissues. Although the gut is a very large lymphoid tissue, inflammation in the absorptive small intestine, the jejunum, where insulin regulates lipid and sugar absorption is unknown. We analyzed jejunal samples of 185 obese subjects stratified in three metabolic groups: without comorbidity, suffering from obesity-related comorbidity, and diabetic, versus 33 lean controls. Obesity increased both mucosa surface due to lower cell apoptosis and innate and adaptive immune cell populations. The preferential CD8αβ T cell location in epithelium over lamina propria appears a hallmark of obesity. Cytokine secretion by T cells from obese, but not lean, subjects blunted insulin signaling in enterocytes relevant to apical GLUT2 mislocation. Statistical links between T cell densities and BMI, NAFLD, or lipid metabolism suggest tissue crosstalk. Obesity triggers T-cell-mediated inflammation and enterocyte insulin resistance in the jejunum with potential broader systemic implications.	26094890
High Prevalence of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Adolescents Undergoing Bariatric Surgery.	Little is known about the prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) among severely obese adolescents or factors that determine its development. We investigated the prevalence of NAFLD in a multicenter cohort of adolescents undergoing bariatric surgery and the factors associated with it.	26026390
Salicylic acid elicitation during cultivation of the peppermint plant improves anti-diabetic effects of its infusions.	Peppermint (Mentha piperita) infusions represent an important source of bioactive compounds with health benefits, which can be enhanced by applying salicylic acid (SA) during plant cultivation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of SA (0, 0.5 and 2 mM) during peppermint cultivation on the chemical profile of saponins and alkaloids, as well as the anti-diabetic properties of the resulting infusions. The results showed that a 2 mM SA treatment significantly improved the chemical profiles of the infusions. Furthermore, the administration of 2 mM SA-treated peppermint infusions for 4 weeks to a high-fat diet/streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats decreased serum glucose levels (up to 25%) and increased serum insulin levels (up to 75%) as compared with the diabetic control. This can be related to the observed protection on pancreatic β-cells. Furthermore, 0.5 and 2 mM SA-treated peppermint infusions decreased LDL (24 and 47%, respectively) and increased HDL levels (18 and 37%, respectively). In addition, all groups treated with peppermint infusions had lower serum and liver triglyceride contents, where 2 mM SA peppermint infusion showed the highest effect (44% and 56%, respectively). This is probably caused by its higher capacity to inhibit pancreatic lipase activity and lipid absorption. Moreover, SA-treated peppermint infusions improved the steatosis score in diabetic rat liver and decreased serum transaminase levels, probably as a result of the increase in steroidal saponins and alkaloids, such as trigonellin. Therefore, the application of 2 mM SA during cultivation of peppermint could be used to improve the anti-diabetic properties of peppermint infusions.	25940690
Hepatoselective Nitric Oxide (NO) Donors, V-PYRRO/NO and V-PROLI/NO, in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: A Comparison of Antisteatotic Effects with the Biotransformation and Pharmacokinetics.	V-PYRRO/NO [O(2)-vinyl-1-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate] and V-PROLI/NO (O2-vinyl-[2-(carboxylato)pyrrolidin-1-yl]diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate), two structurally similar diazeniumdiolate derivatives, were designed as liver-selective prodrugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, with subsequent release of nitric oxide (NO). Yet, their efficacy in the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and their comparative pharmacokinetic and metabolic profiles have not been characterized. The aim of the present work was to compare the effects of V-PYRRO/NO and V-PROLI/NO on liver steatosis, glucose tolerance, and liver fatty acid composition in C57BL/6J mice fed a high-fat diet, as well as to comprehensively characterize the ADME (absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion) profiles of both NO donors. Despite their similar structure, V-PYRRO/NO and V-PROLI/NO showed differences in pharmacological efficacy in the murine model of NAFLD. V-PYRRO/NO, but not V-PROLI/NO, attenuated liver steatosis, improved glucose tolerance, and favorably modified fatty acid composition in the liver. Both compounds were characterized by rapid absorption following i.p. administration, rapid elimination from the body, and incomplete bioavailability. However, V-PYRRO/NO was eliminated mainly by the liver, whereas V-PROLI/NO was excreted mostly in unchanged form by the kidney. V-PYRRO/NO was metabolized by CYP2E1, CYP2C9, CYP1A2, and CYP3A4, whereas V-PROLI/NO was metabolized mainly by CYP1A2. Importantly, V-PYRRO/NO was a better NO releaser in vivo and in the isolated, perfused liver than V-PROLI/NO, an effect compatible with the superior antisteatotic activity of V-PYRRO/NO. In conclusion, V-PYRRO/NO displayed a pronounced antisteatotic effect associated with liver-targeted NO release, whereas V-PROLI/NO showed low effectiveness, was not taken up by the liver, and was eliminated mostly in unchanged form by the kidney.	25870102
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in precision medicine: Unraveling the factors that contribute to individual variability.	There are numerous factors in individual variability that make the development and implementation of precision medicine a challenge in the clinic. One of the main goals of precision medicine is to identify the correct dose for each individual in order to maximize therapeutic effect and minimize the occurrence of adverse drug reactions. Many promising advances have been made in identifying and understanding how factors such as genetic polymorphisms can influence drug pharmacokinetics (PK) and contribute to variable drug response (VDR), but it is clear that there remain many unidentified variables. Underlying liver diseases such as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) alter absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) processes and must be considered in the implementation of precision medicine. There is still a profound need for clinical investigation into how NASH-associated changes in ADME mediators, such as metabolism enzymes and transporters, affect the pharmacokinetics of individual drugs known to rely on these pathways for elimination. This review summarizes the key PK factors in individual variability and VDR and highlights NASH as an essential underlying factor that must be considered as the development of precision medicine advances. A multifactorial approach to precision medicine that considers the combination of two or more risk factors (e.g. genetics and NASH) will be required in our effort to provide a new era of benefit for patients.	25805597
Increased duodenal iron absorption through up-regulation of divalent metal transporter 1 from enhancement of iron regulatory protein 1 activity in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.	Increased hepatic iron accumulation is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Hepatic iron accumulation, as well as oxidative DNA damage, is significantly increased in NASH livers. However, the precise mechanism of iron accumulation in the NASH liver remains unclear. In this study, 40 cases with a diagnosis of NASH (n = 25) or simple steatosis (SS; n = 15) by liver biopsy were enrolled. An oral iron absorption test (OIAT) was used, in which 100 mg of sodium ferrous citrate was administered to each individual. The OIAT showed that absorption of iron from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract was increased significantly in NASH patients, compared to SS and control subjects. Iron reduction therapy was effective in patients with NASH, who exhibited iron deposition in the liver and no alanine aminotransferase improvement after other therapies (n = 9). Serum hepcidin concentration and messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) also were significantly elevated in patients with NASH. OIAT results were correlated with grade of liver iron accumulation and DMT1 mRNA levels. Then, we demonstrated that DMT1 mRNA levels increased significantly in Caco-2/TC7 cell monolayers cultured in transwells with serum from NASH patients. An electrophoresis mobility shift assay showed activation of iron regulatory protein (IRP) in those cells, and IRP1 small interfering RNA clearly inhibited the increase of DMT1 mRNA levels.	25753988
Effect of specific amino acids on hepatic lipid metabolism in fructose-induced non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	Fructose diets have been shown to induce insulin resistance and to alter liver metabolism and gut barrier function, ultimately leading to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Citrulline, Glutamine and Arginine may improve insulin sensitivity and have beneficial effects on gut trophicity. Our aim was to evaluate their effects on liver and gut functions in a rat model of fructose-induced non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	25736031
The effect of ezetimibe on NAFLD.	NAFLD has become the most common liver disorder in countries, where obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, and metabolic syndrome are common. The strong association between these conditions and the risk of cardiovascular disease make treatment crucial. Possible interventions for NAFLD target excess body weight, insulin resistance, inflammation, oxidative stress or intestinal lipid absorption. Administration of combination therapy with a statin plus ezetimibe, associated with lifestyle changes, may represent an effective strategy because of the strong reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Combination therapy is often more effective, especially when complementary mechanisms of action are involved. Ezetimibe is effective and well tolerated in combination with a number of lipid lowering therapies, including statins, orlistat, and insulin-sensitizing agents. There is strong evidence from preclinical models to supporting the use of ezetimibe in this setting. Larger controlled trials are needed to confirm its effectiveness in patients with NAFLD, to establish the most efficacious combinations and to determine whether treatment can reverse fibrosis.	25659874
Bile acid signaling through farnesoid X and TGR5 receptors in hepatobiliary and intestinal diseases.	The well-known functions of bile acids (BAs) are the emulsification and absorption of lipophilic xenobiotics. However, the emerging evidences in the past decade showed that BAs act as signaling molecules that not only autoregulate their own metabolism and enterohepatic recirculation, but also as important regulators of integrative metabolism by activating nuclear and membrane-bound G protein-coupled receptors. The present review was to get insight into the role of maintenance of BA homeostasis and BA signaling pathways in development and management of hepatobiliary and intestinal diseases.	25655287
Dysbiosis gut microbiota associated with inflammation and impaired mucosal immune function in intestine of humans with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has recently been considered to be under the influence of the gut microbiota, which might exert toxic effects on the human host after intestinal absorption and delivery to the liver via the portal vein. In this study, the composition of the gut microbiota in NAFLD patients and healthy subjects was determined via 16S ribosomal RNA Illumina next-generation sequencing. Among those taxa displaying greater than 0.1% average abundance in all samples, five genera, including Alistipes and Prevotella, were significantly more abundant in the gut microbiota of healthy subjects compared to NAFLD patients. Alternatively, Escherichia, Anaerobacter, Lactobacillus and Streptococcus were increased in the gut microbiota of NAFLD patients compared to healthy subjects. In addition, decreased numbers of CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes and increased levels of TNF-α, IL-6 and IFN-γ were detected in the NAFLD group compared to the healthy group. Furthermore, irregularly arranged microvilli and widened tight junctions were observed in the gut mucosa of the NAFLD patients via transmission electron microscopy. We postulate that aside from dysbiosis of the gut microbiota, gut microbiota-mediated inflammation of the intestinal mucosa and the related impairment in mucosal immune function play an important role in the pathogenesis of NAFLD.	25644696
Ezetimibe for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: assessment by novel magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance elastography in a randomized trial (MOZART trial).	Ezetimibe inhibits intestinal cholesterol absorption and lowers low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Uncontrolled studies have suggested that it reduces liver fat as estimated by ultrasound in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Therefore, we aimed to examine the efficacy of ezetimibe versus placebo in reducing liver fat by the magnetic resonance imaging-derived proton density-fat fraction (MRI-PDFF) and liver histology in patients with biopsy-proven NASH. In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 50 patients with biopsy-proven NASH were randomized to either ezetimibe 10 mg orally daily or placebo for 24 weeks. The primary outcome was a change in liver fat as measured by MRI-PDFF in colocalized regions of interest within each of the nine liver segments. Novel assessment by two-dimensional and three-dimensional magnetic resonance elastography was also performed. Ezetimibe was not significantly better than placebo at reducing liver fat as measured by MRI-PDFF (mean difference between the ezetimibe and placebo arms -1.3%, P = 0.4). Compared to baseline, however, end-of-treatment MRI-PDFF was significantly lower in the ezetimibe arm (15%-11.6%, P < 0.016) but not in the placebo arm (18.5%-16.4%, P = 0.15). There were no significant differences in histologic response rates, serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels, or longitudinal changes in two-dimensional and three-dimensional magnetic resonance elastography-derived liver stiffness between the ezetimibe and placebo arms. Compared to histologic nonresponders (25/35), histologic responders (10/35) had a significantly greater reduction in MRI-PDFF (-4.35 ± 4.9% versus -0.30 ± 4.1%, P < 0.019).	25482832
Gut microbiota and metabolic syndrome.	Gut microbiota exerts a significant role in the pathogenesis of the metabolic syndrome, as confirmed by studies conducted both on humans and animal models. Gut microbial composition and functions are strongly influenced by diet. This complex intestinal "superorganism" seems to affect host metabolic balance modulating energy absorption, gut motility, appetite, glucose and lipid metabolism, as well as hepatic fatty storage. An impairment of the fine balance between gut microbes and host's immune system could culminate in the intestinal translocation of bacterial fragments and the development of "metabolic endotoxemia", leading to systemic inflammation and insulin resistance. Diet induced weight-loss and bariatric surgery promote significant changes of gut microbial composition, that seem to affect the success, or the inefficacy, of treatment strategies. Manipulation of gut microbiota through the administration of prebiotics or probiotics could reduce intestinal low grade inflammation and improve gut barrier integrity, thus, ameliorating metabolic balance and promoting weight loss. However, further evidence is needed to better understand their clinical impact and therapeutic use.	25473159
Gut microbiome and nonalcoholic fatty liver diseases.	We review recent findings and hypotheses on the roles of gut microbiome in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic fatty liver diseases (NAFLD). Microbial metabolites and cell components contribute to the development of hepatic steatosis and inflammation, key components of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the severe form of NAFLD. Altered gut microbiome can independently cause obesity, the most important risk factor for NAFLD. This capability is attributed to short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), major gut microbial fermentation products. SCFAs account for a large portion of caloric intake of the host, and they enhance intestinal absorption by activating GLP-2 signaling. However, elevated SCFAs may be an adaptive measure to suppress colitis, which could be a higher priority than imbalanced calorie intake. The microbiome of NASH patients features an elevated capacity for alcohol production. The pathomechanisms for alcoholic steatohepatitis may apply to NASH. NAFLD/NASH is associated with elevated Gram-negative microbiome and endotoxemia. However, many NASH patients exhibited normal serum endotoxin indicating that endotoxemia is not required for the pathogenesis of NASH. These observations suggest that microbial intervention may benefit NAFLD/NASH patients. However, very limited effects were observed using traditional probiotic species. Novel probiotic therapy based on NAFLD/NASH specific microbial composition represents a promising future direction.	25310763
Ezetimibe prevents the development of non‑alcoholic fatty liver disease induced by high‑fat diet in C57BL/6J mice.	There is currently no established treatment for non‑alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), including its most extreme form, non‑alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Ezetimibe, an inhibitor of Niemann‑Pick C1 Like 1‑dependent cholesterol absorption, improves diet‑induced hyperlipidemia and attenuates liver steatosis and insulin resistance. The aim of the present study was to determine whether ezetimibe treatment is able to inhibit the development of NAFLD, and to elucidate the underlying mechanism, using C57BL/6J (B6) mice maintained on a high‑fat diet. Male B6 mice (20 weeks of age) were divided into the following two groups (n=7 in each group): Mice fed a high‑fat diet for four weeks and mice fed a high‑fat diet with 0.0064% (wt/wt) ezetimibe (5 mg/kg/day) for four weeks. Administration of ezetimibe significantly reduced liver steatosis and fibrosis. Ezetimibe reduced serum cholesterol, hepatic fat accumulation and insulin resistance in the liver of mice fed the high‑fat diet. Furthermore, ezetimibe significantly reduced hepatic mRNA expression of Acc1 and Scd1, which are involved in hepatic fatty acid synthesis. Ezetimibe significantly reduced hepatic Cd36 gene expression, upregulation of which is significantly associated with insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia and increased steatosis. The protein expression of SKP2, a viable therapeutic target in human cancer, was also reduced by ezetimibe. These findings suggest that ezetimibe may be an effective therapy for high fat‑induced NAFLD, including NASH.	25310357
The effect of tomato juice supplementation on biomarkers and gene expression related to lipid metabolism in rats with induced hepatic steatosis.	Tomato products are a dietary source of natural antioxidants, especially lycopene, which accumulates in the liver, where it exerts biological effects. Taking into consideration this fact, the aim of the present study was to ascertain the effect of tomato consumption on biomarkers and gene expression related to lipid metabolism in rats with induced steatosis.	25241023
Obesity as an emerging risk factor for iron deficiency.	Iron homeostasis is affected by obesity and obesity-related insulin resistance in a many-facetted fashion. On one hand, iron deficiency and anemia are frequent findings in subjects with progressed stages of obesity. This phenomenon has been well studied in obese adolescents, women and subjects undergoing bariatric surgery. On the other hand, hyperferritinemia with normal or mildly elevated transferrin saturation is observed in approximately one-third of patients with metabolic syndrome (MetS) or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). This constellation has been named the "dysmetabolic iron overload syndrome (DIOS)". Both elevated body iron stores and iron deficiency are detrimental to health and to the course of obesity-related conditions. Iron deficiency and anemia may impair mitochondrial and cellular energy homeostasis and further increase inactivity and fatigue of obese subjects. Obesity-associated inflammation is tightly linked to iron deficiency and involves impaired duodenal iron absorption associated with low expression of duodenal ferroportin (FPN) along with elevated hepcidin concentrations. This review summarizes the current understanding of the dysregulation of iron homeostasis in obesity.	25215659
Protective effects of farnesoid X receptor (FXR) on hepatic lipid accumulation are mediated by hepatic FXR and independent of intestinal FGF15 signal.	There is a growing evidence that bile acids are involved in the regulation of triglyceride-, cholesterol-homoeostasis and fat absorption. In this study organ-specific Fxr knockout mice were used to further investigate the influence of farnesoid X receptor FXR in lipogenesis.	25156247
The therapy of insulin resistance in other diseases besides type 2 diabetes.	Insulin resistance is a clinical condition shared by many diseases besides type 2 diabetes (T2DM) such as obesity, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Experimental evidence, produced over the years, suggests that metformin has many benefits in the treatment of these diseases. Metformin is a first-line drug in the treatment of overweight and obese type 2 diabetic patients, offering a selective pathophysiological approach by its effect on insulin resistance. Moreover, a number of studies have established the favorable effect of metformin on body weight, not only when evaluating BMI, but also if body mass composition is considered, through the reduction of fat mass. In addition, it reduces insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, lipid parameters, arterial hypertension and endothelial dysfunction. In particular, a new formulation of metformin extended-release (ER) is now available with different formulation in different countries. Metformin ER delivers the active drug through hydrated polymers which expand safe uptake of fluid, prolonging gastric transit and delaying drug absorption in the upper gastrointestinal tract. In addition, Metformin ER causes a small, but statistically significant decrease in BMI, when added to a lifestyle intervention program in obese adolescents. Because of the suggested benefits for the treatment of insulin resistance in many clinical conditions, besides type 2 diabetes, the prospective exists that more indications for metformin treatment are becoming a reality.	25069836
Novel pathway for iron deficiency in pediatric non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.	Iron may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) as it catalyzes the production of potent reactive oxygen species. We aim to examine iron status in pediatric NASH.	25000850
Role of gut microbiota and Toll-like receptors in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Emerging data have shown a close association between compositional changes in gut microbiota and the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The change in gut microbiota may alter nutritional absorption and storage. In addition, gut microbiota are a source of Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands, and their compositional change can also increase the amount of TLR ligands delivered to the liver. TLR ligands can stimulate liver cells to produce proinflammatory cytokines. Therefore, the gut-liver axis has attracted much interest, particularly regarding the pathogenesis of NAFLD. The abundance of the major gut microbiota, including Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, has been considered a potential underlying mechanism of obesity and NAFLD, but the role of these microbiota in NAFLD remains unknown. Several reports have demonstrated that certain gut microbiota are associated with the development of obesity and NAFLD. For instance, a decrease in Akkermansia muciniphila causes a thinner intestinal mucus layer and promotes gut permeability, which allows the leakage of bacterial components. Interventions to increase Akkermansia muciniphila improve the metabolic parameters in obesity and NAFLD. In children, the levels of Escherichia were significantly increased in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) compared with those in obese control. Escherichia can produce ethanol, which promotes gut permeability. Thus, normalization of gut microbiota using probiotics or prebiotics is a promising treatment option for NAFLD. In addition, TLR signaling in the liver is activated, and its downstream molecules, such as proinflammatory cytokines, are increased in NAFLD. To data, TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, and TLR9 have been shown to be associated with the pathogenesis of NAFLD. Therefore, gut microbiota and TLRs are targets for NAFLD treatment.	24966608
Oral fructose absorption in obese children with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	Fructose intake is associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) development.	24961681
Persimmon tannin accounts for hypolipidemic effects of persimmon through activating of AMPK and suppressing NF-κB activation and inflammatory responses in high-fat diet rats.	The present study was to investigate whether high molecular weight persimmon tannin (HMWPT) is the main component associated with the anti-hyperlipidemic effect of consuming persimmon and its underlying mechanism. Male wistar rats were given a basic diet (control), a high-fat diet, a high-fat diet plus 0.5% of HMWPT or 4.2% of lyophilized fresh persimmon fruit (with the same diet HMWPT content in the two groups) for 9 weeks. Administration of HMWPT or persimmon fruit significantly (p < 0.05) lowered serum triglycerides and free fatty acids, enhanced the excretion of triglycerides, cholesterol and bile acids, and improved hepatic steatosis in rats fed a high-fat diet. Dietary HMWPT or persimmon fruit significantly decreased the protein levels of fatty acid synthase (FAS), and stimulated AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and down-regulated genes involved in lipogenesis, including transcriptional factor sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP1) and acetyl CoA carboxylase (ACC). In addition, the expression of proteins involved in fatty acid oxidation, such as carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 (CPT-1), was notably up-regulated. Furthermore, HMWPT and persimmon fruit suppressed inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) and C-reactive protein (CRP) and the protein level of nuclear factor-kappa B (NFκB) in the liver. Taken together, our findings demonstrated that HMWPT reproduced the anti-hyperlipidemic effects of persimmon fruit, and was a pivotal constituent of persimmon fruit accounting for prevention of liver steatosis and its progression to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) by activation of the AMPK and regulation of its downstream targets, suppressing NF-κB activation and inflammatory responses, and inhibiting lipids and bile acid absorption.	24841999
Lipid modulatory activities of Cichorium glandulosum Boiss et Huet are mediated by multiple components within hepatocytes.	To investigate a possible methodology of exploiting herbal medicine and design polytherapy for the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), we have made use of Cichorium glandulosum Boiss et Huet (CG), a traditional Chinese herbal medicine that has been proven to be effective in treating hepatic diseases. Here, we report that the extract of CG effectively reduced lipid accumulation under conditions of lipid overloading in vivo and in vitro (in a rat high-fat diet model and a hepG2 cell model of free fatty acid treatment). CG extract also protected hepatocytes from injury and inflammation to aid its lipid-lowering properties (in a rat high-fat diet model and a L02 cell model of acetaminophen treatment). Serum chemistry analysis accompanied by in vitro drug screening confirmed that CG-4, CG-10 and CG-14 are the lipo-effective components of CG. Western blotting analysis revealed that these components can regulate key lipid targets at the molecular level, including CD36, FATP5 and PPAR-α, thus the lipid oxidation and lipid absorption pathways. Finally, we adopted the experimental design and statistical method to calculate the best combination proportion (CG-4: CG-10: CG-14 = 2.065: 1.782: 2.153) to optimize its therapeutic effect.	24797163
Role of Nrf2 in the alteration of cholesterol and bile acid metabolism-related gene expression by dietary cholesterol in high fat-fed mice.	Nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a regulator of lipid metabolism as well as various cytoprotective enzymes and may be involved in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Although, bile acids affect lipid metabolism, the role of Nrf2 in bile acid metabolism remains unclear. In this study, it was tested how Nrf2 modulates lipid and bile acid homeostasis in liver in response to changes of cholesterol absorption under high-fat diet using Nrf2-null mice. Eight-week-old male wild-type and Nrf2-null mice (n = 6/group) were divided into three groups fed the following diets: 1) control diet containing 4% soybean oil and 16% lard, 2) control diet plus ezetimibe, 3) control diet plus cholesterol. Blood and livers were removed after 4 weeks feeding. High cholesterol diet increased hepatic expression of liver X receptor α target genes related to fatty acid metabolism (FAS, ACC1, SREBP-1c, SCD-1c and CD36), cholesterol transport (Abcg5/abcg8) and bile acid synthesis (Cyp7a1) in wild type mice. However, these genes were not induced in Nrf2-null mice. These findings suggest that Nrf2 has a relation to liver X receptor α and controls the regulation of gene expressions related to lipid and bile acid metabolism.	24688217
Serum hepcidin levels and iron metabolism in obese children with and without fatty liver: case-control study.	Hepcidin is a regulator of iron balance that is increased in obesity. It reduces the absorption of iron, reduces the transfer of iron from macrophages to the plasma and/or prevents mobilisation of stored iron. Obese patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) demonstrate adipokine and cytokine release promoting inflammatory response. We aimed to analyse the hepcidin levels and iron metabolism in obese children with and without NAFLD and non-obese healthy controls. The study population consisted of 110 children aged 7-18 years in three groups: 50 obese patients without NAFLD, 30 obese patients with NAFLD, and 30 non-obese healthy controls. Serum hepcidin, ferritin, and iron levels, iron-binding capacity, lipid profile, and liver function tests were measured, and hepatic ultrasonography was performed in all participants. Obese patients' white blood cell counts, total cholesterol, triglyceride levels, and homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) were significantly higher than those of the control group. Iron-binding capacity was significantly higher in obese patients without NAFLD compared with obese patients with NAFLD (p = 0.002). Hepcidin levels were not significantly different between obese patients and the control group. However, hepcidin levels in obese patients with NAFLD were significantly higher than those in obese patients without NAFLD (p < 0.001).	24500395
The effects of ezetimibe on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and glucose metabolism: a randomised controlled trial.	The cholesterol absorption inhibitor ezetimibe has been shown to ameliorate non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) pathology in a single-armed clinical study and in experimental animal models. In this study, we investigated the efficacy of ezetimibe on NAFLD pathology in an open-label randomised controlled clinical trial.	24407920
Pharmacokinetics of cysteamine bitartrate following intraduodenal delivery.	Cysteamine is approved for the treatment of cystinosis and is being evaluated for Huntington's disease and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Little is known about the bioavailability and biodistribution of the drug. The aim was to determine plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and tissue (liver, kidney, muscle) cysteamine levels following intraduodenal delivery of the drug in rats pretreated and naïve to cysteamine and to estimate the hepatic first-pass effect on cysteamine. Healthy male rats (n = 66) underwent intraduodenal and portal (PV) or jugular (JVC) venous catheterization. Half were pretreated with cysteamine, and half were naïve. Following intraduodenal cysteamine (20 mg/kg), serial blood samples were collected from the PV or the JVC. Animals were sacrificed at specific time points, and CSF and tissue were collected. Cysteamine levels were determined in plasma, CSF, and tissue. The Cmax was achieved in 5-10 min from PV and 5-22.5 min from JVC. The PV-Cmax (P = 0.08), PV-AUC0-t (P = 0.16), JVC-Cmax (P = 0.02) and JVC-AUC0-t (P = 0.03) were higher in naive than in pretreated animals. Plasma cysteamine levels returned to baseline in ≤120 min. The hepatic first-pass effect was estimated at 40%. Peak tissue and CSF cysteamine levels occurred ≤22.5 min, but returned to baseline levels ≤180 min. There was no difference in CSF and tissue cysteamine levels between naïve and pretreated groups, although cysteamine was more rapidly cleared in the pretreated group. Cysteamine is rapidly absorbed from the small intestine, undergoes significant hepatic first-pass metabolism, crosses the blood brain barrier, and is almost undetectable in plasma, CSF, and body tissues 2 h after ingestion. Sustained-release cysteamine may provide prolonged tissue exposure.	23113697
ery low density lipoprotein. This disorder is called nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in the absence of alcoholic abuse and viral hepatitis, and it is often associated with insulin resistance, obesity and type 2 diabetes. Also, liver steatosis can be induced by many other causes including excessive alcohol consumption, infection with genotype 3 hepatitis C virus and certain medications. Whereas hepatic triacylglycerol accumulation was once considered the ultimate effector of hepatic lipotoxicity, triacylglycerols per se are quite inert and do not induce insulin resistance or cellular injury. Rather, lipotoxic injury in the liver appears to be mediated by the global ongoing fatty acid enrichment in the liver, paralleling the development of insulin resistance. A considerable number of fatty acid metabolites may be responsible for hepatic lipotoxicity and liver injury. Additional key contributors include hepatic cytosolic lipases and the "lipophagy" of lipid droplets, as sources of hepatic fatty acids. The specific origin of the lipids, mainly triacylglycerols, accumulating in liver has been unraveled by recent kinetic studies, and identifying the origin of the accumulated triacylglycerols in the liver of patients with NAFLD may direct the prevention and treatment of this condition.	24265237
Retinoic acid-related orphan receptor α regulates diurnal rhythm and fasting induction of sterol 12α-hydroxylase in bile acid synthesis.	Sterol 12α-hydroxylase (CYP8B1) is required for cholic acid synthesis and plays a critical role in intestinal cholesterol absorption and pathogenesis of cholesterol gallstone, dyslipidemia, and diabetes. In this study we investigated the underlying mechanism of fasting induction and circadian rhythm of CYP8B1 by a cholesterol-activated nuclear receptor and core clock gene retinoic acid-related orphan receptor α (RORα). Fasting stimulated, whereas restricted-feeding reduced expression of CYP8B1 mRNA and protein. However, fasting and feeding had little effect on the diurnal rhythm of RORα mRNA expression, but fasting increased RORα protein levels by cAMP-activated protein kinase A-mediated phosphorylation and stabilization of the protein. Adenovirus-mediated gene transduction of RORα to mice strongly induced CYP8B1 expression, and increased liver cholesterol and 12α-hydroxylated bile acids in the bile acid pool and serum. A reporter assay identified a functional RORα response element in the CYP8B1 promoter. RORα recruited cAMP response element-binding protein-binding protein (CBP) to stimulate histone acetylation on the CYP8B1 gene promoter. In conclusion, RORα is a key regulator of diurnal rhythm and fasting induction of CYP8B1, which regulates bile acid composition and serum and liver cholesterol levels. Antagonizing RORα activity may be a therapeutic strategy for treating inflammatory diseases such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes.	24226095
The role of gastrointestinal hormones in hepatic lipid metabolism.	Hepatocellular accumulation of free fatty acids (FFAs) in the form of triglycerides constitutes the metabolic basis for the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Recent data demonstrate that excess FFA hepatocyte storage is likely to lead to lipotoxicity and hepatocyte apoptosis. Hence, FFA-mediated hepatocyte injury is a key contributor to the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, obesity, type 2 diabetes, essential hypertension, and other common medical problems together comprise metabolic syndrome. Evidence suggests that peptide hormones from the L cells of the distal small intestine, which comprise the core of the enteroendocrine system (EES), play two key roles, serving either as incretins, or as mediators of appetite and satiety in the central nervous system. Recent data related to glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and other known L-cell hormones have accumulated due to the increasing frequency of bariatric surgery, which increase delivery of bile salts to the hindgut. Bile acids are a key stimulus for the TGR5 receptor of the L cells. Enhanced bile-salt flow and subsequent EES stimulation may be central to elimination of hepatic steatosis following bariatric surgery. Although GLP-1 is a clinically relevant pharmacological analogue that drives pancreatic β-cell insulin output, GLP-1 analogues also have independent benefits via their effects on hepatocellular FFA metabolism. The authors also discuss recent data regarding the role of the major peptides released by the EES, which promote satiety and modulate energy homeostasis and utilization, as well as those that control fat absorption and intestinal permeability. Taken together, elucidating novel functions for EES-related peptides and pharmacologic development of peptide analogues offer potential far-ranging treatment for obesity-related human disease.	24222092
Bile acid-mediated control of liver triglycerides.	Bile acids (BAs) are steroidal molecules generated in the liver by cholesterol oxidation. Beside their well-established role in lipid absorption and cholesterol homeostasis, they function as signaling molecules and activate dedicated BA receptors such as the farnesoid X receptor (FXR) and the G-protein coupled receptor TGR5. Through activation of downstream signaling pathways of these key receptors, BAs regulate not only their own synthesis and enterohepatic circulation, but also impact on hepatic lipid, glucose, and energy homeostasis. Therefore, BA-regulated signaling pathways have emerged as attractive targets for understanding the regulation of hepatic triglyceride metabolism in health and disease and treating fatty liver disease and associated metabolic disorders.	24222091
[An inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol transporter].	Ezetimibe is a unique inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol absorption. Ezetimibe selectively inhibits intestinal cholesterol absorption by blocking Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 (NPCIL1). Ezetimibe accelerates VLDL and TG degradation. Therefore, ezetimibe ameliorates postprandial hyperlipidemia. Ezetimibe inhibited the progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) by correcting insulin resistance and decreasing small dense LDL-C in human subjects. In clinical study, ezetimibe administration combined with statin failed to inhibit progression of IMT thickness in ENHANCE (Ezetimibe and Simvastatin in Hypercholesterolemia Enhances Atherosclerosis Regression) study. In this study baseline IMT thickness (0.7 mm) of patients was within normal range. Therefore only two years observation was too short to demonstrate anti-atherogenic effects of ezetimibe. SEAS(Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis) trial examined effects of combination therapy with ezetimibe and statin in patients with aortic stenosis. Combination therapy could not inhibit progression of aortic stenosis. However, events of ischemic heart disease, especially CABG were significantly decreased only in combination group. Statin was not reported to reduce CVD(cardiovascular disease) in moderate to severe CKD patients. In SHARP(Study of Heart and Renal Protection) study, patients with severe renal disease were allocated either for statin alone group or combination therapy group with statin and ezetimibe. Combination therapy significantly decreased non-hemorrhagic stroke by 25 % compared with statin alone group in severe CKD and HD(hemodialysis) patients. Ezetimibe has unique lipid lowering profile increasing HDL-C concomitant with decreasing LDL-C and TG. Ezetimibe should be initiated first in patients with insulin resistant metabolic syndrome. Ezetimibe should be combined with statin to reduce not only LDL-C but RLP-C(remnant like lipoprotein particle choletserol) in type IIb dyslipidemia.	24205731
Camel milk ameliorates steatohepatitis, insulin resistance and lipid peroxidation in experimental non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	Camel milk (CM) is gaining increasing recognition due to its beneficial effects in the control and prevention of multiple health problems. The current study aimed to investigate the effects of CM on the hepatic biochemical and cellular alterations induced by a high-fat, cholesterol-rich diet (HCD), specifically, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).	24119413
[Hungarian twin studies: results of four decades].	Other aspects of bariatric surgery: liver steatosis, ferritin and cholesterol metabolism.	Altered hepatic gene expression profiles associated with improved fatty liver, insulin resistance, and intestinal permeability after hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) supplementation in diet-induced obese mice.	The effect of hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) on hepatic gene expression was analyzed by exon microarray and real-time PCR from livers of diet-induced obese (DIO) mice fed a high-fat (HF) diet supplemented with either 6% HPMC or 6% microcrystalline cellulose (MCC). HPMC-fed mice exhibited significantly reduced body weight gain (55% lower compared to MCC), liver weight (13%), plasma LDL-cholesterol concentration (45%), and HF diet-increased intestinal permeability (48%). HPMC significantly reduced areas under the curve for 2 h insulin and glucose responses, indicating enhanced insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism. HPMC up-regulated hepatic genes related to fatty acid oxidation, cholesterol and bile acid synthesis, and cellular activation of glucocorticoid (bile acid recycling) and down-regulated genes related to oxidative stress, triglyceride synthesis, and polyunsaturated fatty acid elongation. In conclusion, HPMC consumption ameliorates the effects of a HF diet on intestinal permeability, insulin resistance, hepatic lipid accumulation, glucocorticoid-related bile acid recycling, oxidative stress, and weight gain in DIO mice.	23742138
Ezetimibe prevents hepatic steatosis induced by a high-fat but not a high-fructose diet.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the most frequent liver disease. Ezetimibe, an inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol absorption, has been reported to ameliorate hepatic steatosis in human and animal models. To explore how ezetimibe reduces hepatic steatosis, we investigated the effects of ezetimibe on the expression of lipogenic enzymes and intestinal lipid metabolism in mice fed a high-fat or a high-fructose diet. CBA/JN mice were fed a high-fat diet or a high-fructose diet for 8 wk with or without ezetimibe. High-fat diet induced hepatic steatosis accompanied by hyperinsulinemia. Treatment with ezetimibe reduced hepatic steatosis, insulin levels, and glucose production from pyruvate in mice fed the high-fat diet, suggesting a reduction of insulin resistance in the liver. In the intestinal analysis, ezetimibe reduced the expression of fatty acid transfer protein-4 and apoB-48 in mice fed the high-fat diet. However, treatment with ezetimibe did not prevent hepatic steatosis, hyperinsulinemia, and intestinal apoB-48 expression in mice fed the high-fructose diet. Ezetimibe decreased liver X receptor-α binding to the sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c promoter but not expression of carbohydrate response element-binding protein and fatty acid synthase in mice fed the high-fructose diet, suggesting that ezetimibe did not reduce hepatic lipogenesis induced by the high-fructose diet. Elevation of hepatic and intestinal lipogenesis in mice fed a high-fructose diet may partly explain the differences in the effect of ezetimibe.	23715726
A high-fat and cholesterol diet causes fatty liver in guinea pigs. The role of iron and oxidative damage.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common chronic liver disease. Iron, cholesterol, and oxidative damage are frequently suggested to be related to the progression of NAFLD, but the precise relationship between them remains unclear. Guinea pigs fed on a high cholesterol and fat diet (without oxidized lipids) generated a disease model of NAFLD with hallmark observations in liver histology and increased liver damage markers. Hepatic cholesterol and iron levels were found to be significantly elevated and directly correlated. Plasma hepcidin and transferrin levels were decreased. Plasma iron concentrations were found to be elevated, likely due to an increased intestinal iron absorption caused by the decrease in plasma hepcidin. However, hepatic transferrin receptor-2 levels were unchanged. No significant increase in hepatic lipid peroxidation was detected using F2-isoprostanes as a reliable biomarker, nor was there a rise in protein carbonyls, a general index of oxidative protein damage. Some increases in cholesterol oxidation products were observed, but largely negated after normalizing for the elevated hepatic cholesterol content. Indeed, increased hemosiderin deposition and unchanged ferritin levels in liver suggested that the excess iron mainly existed as hemosiderin, which is redox-inactive.	23692125
[Low and very low density lipoproteins: pathogenetic and clinical significance].	LDLP and VLDLP have different biological functions: phylogenetically older LDLP transfer FA that serve as substrates for intracellular production of energy and ATP while VLDLP transfer FA--precursors of cell membranes and eicosanoids. The cells absorb LDLP via apoB-100 endocytosis and VLDLP through apoE/B-100 receptors. VLDLP consist of palmitic and oleic VLDLP and LDLP of linoleic and linolenic LDLP. The contribution of LDLP to the development of HLP atherosclerosis and atheromatosis is negligible. LDLP form palmitic and oleic VLDLP with hydrated LDLP density. Blockade of LDLP absorption by apoB endocytosis and deficit of poly-FA constitute the etiological basis of atherosclerosis. Its pathogenetic basis is the excess of palmitic VLDLP with LDPL density in the intercellular space that block absorption of linoleic LDLP with all transferred SC poly-FA. Atheromatosis is clinically and prognostically most significant symptom of atherosclerosis associated with accumulation of ligand-free VLDLP and LDLP in arterial intima of the elastic type as the local pool of interstitial tissue for intravascular pool of intercellular medium. Type 2 diabetes mellitus in aged patients is a symptom of atherosclerosis resulting from SC poly-FA deficit and GLUT4 incompetence. Insulin-dependent cells differ in the degree of insulin resistance. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, synthesis of a physiological palmitic TG by hepatocytes and excessive formation of palmitic VLDLP in liver integrate pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and hepatic steatosis. The main pathogenetic factor is the excess of palmitic s-FA and palmitic TG.	23659066
Role of microRNAs in the regulation of drug metabolism and disposition genes in diabetes and liver disease.	The pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is complex, and the underlying molecular mechanisms are only partially understood.	23565851
Novel effect of ezetimibe to inhibit the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in Fatty Liver Shionogi mouse.	Several studies using experimental non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) models have shown that ezetimibe, an inhibitor of cholesterol absorption mainly in the intestine, not only protects against diet-induced hyperlipidemia, but also attenuates liver steatosis. The aim of this study was to clarify whether ezetimibe inhibits the development of NAFLD and to elaborate the mechanism of ezetimibe to inhibit the development of NAFLD using Fatty Liver Shionogi (FLS) mice, a spontaneous model of NAFLD/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.	23510093
Fecal microbiome and volatile organic compound metabolome in obese humans with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	The histopathology of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is similar to that of alcoholic liver disease. Colonic bacteria are a source of many metabolic products, including ethanol and other volatile organic compounds (VOC) that may have toxic effects on the human host after intestinal absorption and delivery to the liver via the portal vein. Recent data suggest that the composition of the gut microbiota in obese human beings is different from that of healthy-weight individuals. The aim of this study was to compare the colonic microbiome and VOC metabolome of obese NAFLD patients (n = 30) with healthy controls (n = 30).	23454028
Gut-liver axis and microbiota in NAFLD: insight pathophysiology for novel therapeutic target.	There is increasing evidence for a correlation between intestinal microbiota, bacterial translocation and hepatic steatosis. Intestinal microbiota affects nutrient absorption and energy homeostasis. Altered intestinal permeability may favor the passage of bacteriaderived compounds into systemic circulation, causing a systemic inflammatory state, characteristic of the metabolic syndrome. The interaction between intestinal permeability and luminal bacteria is involved in the pathogenesis and evolution of non-alcoholic liver disease. Microbiota pharmacological modulation could be a promising tool for a new therapeutical approach to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	23432669
Health benefits of blue-green algae: prevention of cardiovascular disease and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Blue-green algae (BGA) are among the most primitive life forms on earth and have been consumed as food or medicine by humans for centuries. BGA contain various bioactive components, such as phycocyanin, carotenoids, γ-linolenic acid, fibers, and plant sterols, which can promote optimal health in humans. Studies have demonstrated that several BGA species or their active components have plasma total cholesterol and triglyceride-lowering properties due to their modulation of intestinal cholesterol absorption and hepatic lipogenic gene expression. BGA can also reduce inflammation by inhibiting the nuclear factor κ B activity, consequently reducing the production of proinflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, BGA inhibit lipid peroxidation and have free radical scavenging activity, which can be beneficial for the protection against oxidative stress. The aforementioned effects of BGA can contribute to the prevention of metabolic and inflammatory diseases. This review provides an overview of the current knowledge of the health-promoting functions of BGA against cardiovascular disease and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, which are major health threats in the developed countries.	23402636
Pleiotropic functions of bile acids mediated by the farnesoid X receptor.	In addition to their well-established role in the digestion and absorption of dietary lipids, bile acids (BAs) are recognized as signalling molecules in a wide range of metabolic processes. Bile acids regulate their own metabolism and enterohepatic circulation by activating the farnesoid X receptor (FXR). BAs have been shown to affect lipid metabolism, to decrease levels of circulating triglycerides, improve hyperglycemia and insulin signalling, directly act on the arterial wall and protect hepatocytes against cholestatic liver injury. Given that BAs are an integrated part of the complex metabolic network regulated by FXR, acting as a major underlying pathway, specific therapeutic targeting of this nuclear receptor represents an attractive therapeutic approach for a wide range of disorders. During a phase II clinical trial, the administration of a semisynthetic BA derivative 6-ethyl-chenodeoxycholic acid (6-ECDCA) to patients with diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), led to encouraging results, despite side effects being observed in pre-clinical studies. Chemical manipulations of the side chain and the steroid nucleus of BAs could lead to the discovery of novel semisynthetic BA derivatives that are more specific and selective FXR activators.	23402081
Antioxidant therapy and drugs interfering with lipid metabolism: could they be effective in NAFLD patients?	This review is part of a special issue dealing with various aspects of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We will focus on promising treatments of NASH with antioxidants and drugs that interfere with lipid metabolism.The other therapies of interest, such as diet, behavioral changes, and insulin sensitizers are presented elsewhere. Oxidative stress is believed to play a key role in the pathogenesis of NASH and other liver diseases. Antioxidants aimed at improving chronic alcoholic or viral liver diseases have been an object of study for some time. However, only a few high quality, randomized, versus placebo-controlled, double-blinded trials have been carried out to assess these drugs. Vitamin E is currently the most widely assessed antioxidant. Several questions need to be answered, including long-term tolerance and efficacy of vitamin E in particular subsets, such as diabetes and NASH-related cirrhosis. Other antioxidants are promising, and should be assessed using the standards of evidence-based medicine. NAFLD frequently coexists with hyperlipidemia and carries an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Furthermore, altered lipid metabolism is thought to be central to the pathogenesis of liver injury in NASH. Therefore, lipid-lowering drugs are attractive therapeutic tools in the treatment of NAFLD. Statins have ameliorated surrogate markers of steatosis in several randomized controlled trials, but their impact on liver histology is unknown. They have, however, been found to be the only class of lipid-lowering drugs that reduces cardiovascular risk in NAFLD. Preliminary evidence suggests that ezetimibe, an inhibitor of intestinal and hepatic cholesterol absorption, may improve liver histology, but its impact on the risk of CVD and on clinical outcome remains to be determined. Despite strong experimental evidence supporting the use of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in NAFLD, the studies published on humans have consisted of small sample sizes and had a number of methodological flaws, including the absence of post-treatment histology. Association of antioxidants and/or lipid-lowering drugs plus other drugs of interest in NASH, such as insulin sensitizers, warrant investigation. However, as promising as these drug treatments may continue to be, they should be associated with diet and modifications in lifestyle.	23394094
Ezetimibe therapy for dyslipidemia: an update.	Ezetimibe, an inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol absorption, can decrease total cholesterol (TC), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), triglycerides (TGs) and apolipoprotein (apo) B levels and increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. Apart from lipid-lowering, ezetimibe may exert certain off-target actions (e.g. anti-inflammatory, anti-atherogenic and antioxidant) thus contributing to a further decrease of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk.Ezetimibe trials resulted in controversial outcomes with some studies reporting atherosclerosis regression and reductions in CVD events following ezetimibe therapy in combination with a statin while others reported negative results. The results of the ongoing IMProved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial (IMPROVE-IT) which compares ezetimibe plus simvastatin with simvastatin monotherapy with regard to CVD outcomes after acute coronary syndromes should further elucidate the effect of ezetimibe on CVD events.This review presents the results of up-to-date clinical trials with ezetimibe and summarizes its potential pleiotropic effects. Furthermore, we comment on the administration of ezetimibe in treating high-risk patients [i.e. with diabetes mellitus (DM), metabolic syndrome (MetS), non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), chronic kidney disease (CKD), peripheral artery disease (PAD) or carotid disease]. The use of ezetimibe either as monotherapy or as add-on therapy in daily clinical practice is also discussed.	23317398
[The unity of pathogenesis of insulin resistance syndrome and non-alcoholic fatty disease of liver. The metabolic disorder of fatty acids and triglycerides].	The pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty disease of liver (steatosis) is still as unclear as a loss of hepatocytes similar to apoptosis, development of biological reaction of inflammation, its transformation into steatohepatitis with subsequent fibrosis and formation of atrophic cirrhosis. The article suggests that steatosis is developed due to higher concentration of palmitic saturated fatty acid (C 16:0) in food, intensification of its endogenic synthesis from food carbohydrates and glucose and development of insulin resistance. It is displayed in in hormone ability to activate both oxidation in cells of glucose and synthesis of oleic monoene fatty acid from palmitic saturated fatty acid (C 18:1). The insulin resistance initiates pathologic process on the level of paracrine associations of cells resulting in permanent increase of concentration of non-etherified fatty acids in intercellular medium and intensification of their passive absorption by cells. The phylogenetically ancient mitochondrions will not to oxidize glucose until non-etherified fatty acids are present in cytosol and hence there is an opportunity to oxidize them. To eliminate undesirable action of polar saturated palmitic fatty acid, the cells etherify it by spirit glyceride into triglycerides to deposit in cytosol or to secrete into blood in a form of lipoproteins of very low density. Under insulin resistance, saturated palmitic fatty acid synthesized by hepatocytes from glucose, does not further transform into oleic monoenic fatty acid. The cells are to etherify endogenic (exogenic) palmnitic saturated fatty acid into composition of aphysiologic palmitic triglycerides (saturated palmitic fatty acid in position sn-2 of spirit glyceride). At that, triglycerides of palmitat-palmitat-oleat and even tripalmitat type are formed. The melting temperature of tripalmitat is 48 degrees C and melting temperature of physiologic trioletat is 13 degrees C. The intracellular lipases factually can't hydrolyze palmitic triglycerides. So, hepatocytes, overloaded by them, are destroyed in a way similar to apoptosis. The formed corpuscles of apoptosis disorder the biologic function of endoecology and trigger biologic reaction of inflammation. At that, steatosis changes into steato-hepatitis. The prevention of steatosis consists in dramatic restriction of concentration of palmitic saturated fatty acid in food. The treatment effect is targeted to: decreasing the formation of palmitine triglycerides by force of concurrent etherification of palmitic saturated fatty acid not into triglycerides but into phosphatidylcholine (symmetric phospholipids of soya); intensification of oxidation of palmitic saturated fatty acid in peroxisomes (glytazones and fibrates); decrease of insulin resistance (binuanide metformine).	23305008
Iron homeostasis in the metabolic syndrome.	The metabolic syndrome (MetS) affects iron homeostasis in a many-faceted fashion. On the one side, hyperferritinaemia with normal or mildly elevated transferrin saturation is observed in approximately one-third of patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) or the MetS. This constellation has been named the 'dysmetabolic iron overload syndrome (DIOS)'. Current evidence suggests that elevated body iron stores exert a detrimental effect on the clinical course of obesity-related conditions and that iron removal improves insulin sensitivity and delays the onset of T2DM. On the other side, iron deficiency is a frequent finding in more progressed stages of obesity. The mechanisms underlying the DIOS and obesity-related iron deficiency appear strikingly similar as elevated hepcidin concentrations, low expression of duodenal ferroportin (FPN) and impaired iron absorption are found in both conditions. This review summarizes the current knowledge about the dysregulation of iron homeostasis in the MetS and particularly in its hepatic manifestation NAFLD.	23289518
Gut-liver axis and fibrosis in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: an input for novel therapies.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a multifactorial condition, ranging from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with or without fibrosis. In non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, alteration of gut microbiota and increased intestinal permeability increase exposure of the liver to gut-derived bacterial products: lipopolysaccharides and unmethylated CpG DNA. These products stimulate innate immune receptors, namely Toll-like receptors, which activate signalling pathways involved in liver inflammation and fibrogenesis. Currently, there are several studies on the involvement of lipopolysaccharide-activated Toll-like receptor 4 signalling in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease pathogenesis. There has been widespread interest in the study of the involvement of resident hepatic stellate cells and Kupffer cells activation in liver fibrogenesis upon TLR4 stimulation. Although the best evidence to support a role for gut microbiota in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease-induced fibrosis comes largely from animal models, data from human studies are accumulating and could lead to new therapeutic approaches. Therapeutic modulation of gut microflora may be an alternative strategy to develop an anti-fibrotic therapy. In this review, we discuss the relevant role of gut-liver axis in non-alcoholic liver disease-associated liver fibrosis and discuss the evidence on novel anti-fibrotic therapeutic approaches.	23280158
Possible molecular mechanisms soy-mediated in preventing and treating nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	The aim of this review is to describe the molecular mechanisms of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and to present evidence regarding the mechanisms of soy-mediated therapeutic activity in preventing and treating NAFLD. NAFLD is induced by multiple metabolic pathways, including an increase in the release of fatty acids from the adipose tissue (lipolysis), insulin resistance (IR), and an increase in "de novo" fatty acid synthesis. Furthermore, NAFLD is correlated with a decrease in liver β-oxidation, an increase in oxygen free radical production, and an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokine production, which leads to an increase in liver fat and, subsequently, to tissue damage. The bioactive compounds in soy can prevent and treat NAFLD by modulating lipid metabolism and regulating the expression of related transcription factors. Soy intake decreases the expression of sterol regulatory-element binding protein-lc (SREBP-1) and increases the expression of SREBP-2, which are transcription factors associated with the regulation of hepatic lipogenesis and reduction of cholesterol synthesis and absorption in the liver, respectively. Besides, interactions between soy components, such as standard amino acids, polyunsaturated fat, and the isoflavonoid-enriched fraction, are believed to improve fatty acid oxidation in the liver parenchyma by increasing the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα)-regulated genes, thus decreasing lipid accumulation in the liver. Therefore, including soy-derived foods in the diet as a therapeutic tool for patients with NAFLD might improve their clinical evolution.	23165534
The role of fructose transporters in diseases linked to excessive fructose intake.	Fructose intake has increased dramatically since humans were hunter-gatherers, probably outpacing the capacity of human evolution to make physiologically healthy adaptations. Epidemiological data indicate that this increasing trend continued until recently. Excessive intakes that chronically increase portal and peripheral blood fructose concentrations to >1 and 0.1 mm, respectively, are now associated with numerous diseases and syndromes. The role of the fructose transporters GLUT5 and GLUT2 in causing, contributing to or exacerbating these diseases is not well known. GLUT5 expression seems extremely low in neonatal intestines, and limited absorptive capacities for fructose may explain the high incidence of malabsorption in infants and cause problems in adults unable to upregulate GLUT5 levels to match fructose concentrations in the diet. GLUT5- and GLUT2-mediated fructose effects on intestinal electrolyte transporters, hepatic uric acid metabolism, as well as renal and cardiomyocyte function, may play a role in fructose-induced hypertension. Likewise, GLUT2 may contribute to the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease by facilitating the uptake of fructose. Finally, GLUT5 may play a role in the atypical growth of certain cancers and fat tissues. We also highlight research areas that should yield information needed to better understand the role of these GLUTs in fructose-induced diseases.	23129794
Pharmacokinetics of cysteamine bitartrate following intraduodenal delivery.	Cysteamine is approved for the treatment of cystinosis and is being evaluated for Huntington's disease and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Little is known about the bioavailability and biodistribution of the drug. The aim was to determine plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and tissue (liver, kidney, muscle) cysteamine levels following intraduodenal delivery of the drug in rats pretreated and naïve to cysteamine and to estimate the hepatic first-pass effect on cysteamine. Healthy male rats (n = 66) underwent intraduodenal and portal (PV) or jugular (JVC) venous catheterization. Half were pretreated with cysteamine, and half were naïve. Following intraduodenal cysteamine (20 mg/kg), serial blood samples were collected from the PV or the JVC. Animals were sacrificed at specific time points, and CSF and tissue were collected. Cysteamine levels were determined in plasma, CSF, and tissue. The Cmax was achieved in 5-10 min from PV and 5-22.5 min from JVC. The PV-Cmax (P = 0.08), PV-AUC0-t (P = 0.16), JVC-Cmax (P = 0.02) and JVC-AUC0-t (P = 0.03) were higher in naive than in pretreated animals. Plasma cysteamine levels returned to baseline in ≤120 min. The hepatic first-pass effect was estimated at 40%. Peak tissue and CSF cysteamine levels occurred ≤22.5 min, but returned to baseline levels ≤180 min. There was no difference in CSF and tissue cysteamine levels between naïve and pretreated groups, although cysteamine was more rapidly cleared in the pretreated group. Cysteamine is rapidly absorbed from the small intestine, undergoes significant hepatic first-pass metabolism, crosses the blood brain barrier, and is almost undetectable in plasma, CSF, and body tissues 2 h after ingestion. Sustained-release cysteamine may provide prolonged tissue exposure.	23113697
Liver fat content is associated with an increase in cholesterol synthesis independent of statin therapy use in patients with type 2 diabetes.	We investigated how liver fat content (LFC) influences cholesterol metabolism by quantifying liver fat using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and by measuring the serum concentrations of lathosterol, a marker of cholesterol synthesis, and sitosterol and campesterol, two markers of cholesterol absorption. We also evaluated whether this relationship could be modified by statin therapy. The study was conducted in 263 patients with type 2 diabetes, 137 of whom (52.0%) received statin therapy.	22959662
High-fat, high-fructose diet induces hepatic iron overload via a hepcidin-independent mechanism prior to the onset of liver steatosis and insulin resistance in mice.	Excess iron deposition in tissues leads to increased oxidative stress. The clinical observation that non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is frequently associated with hepatic iron overload (HIO) indicates that iron-induced oxidative stress may be related to NAFLD pathology. Decreased expression of hepcidin, a hepatic hormone that suppresses dietary iron absorption in the duodenum, is frequently observed in NAFLD patients and has been postulated to be a cause of HIO.	22854109
Apolipoprotein A-I modulates processes associated with diet-induced nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in mice.	Apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) is the main protein of high-density lipoprotein (HDL). We investigated the involvement of apoA-I in diet-induced accumulation of triglycerides in hepatocytes and its potential role in the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). ApoA-I-deficient (apoA-I(-/-)) mice showed increased diet-induced hepatic triglyceride deposition and disturbed hepatic histology while they exhibited reduced glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Quantification of FASN (fatty acid synthase) [corrected], DGAT-1 (diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1), and PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ) mRNA expression suggested that the increased hepatic triglyceride content of the apoA-I(-/-) mice was not due to de novo synthesis of triglycerides. Similarly, metabolic profiling did not reveal differences in the energy expenditure between the two mouse groups. However, apoA-I(-/-) mice exhibited enhanced intestinal absorption of dietary triglycerides (3.6 ± 0.5 mg/dL/min for apoA-I(-/-) versus 2.0 ± 0.7 mg/dL/min for C57BL/6 mice, P < 0.05), accelerated clearance of postprandial triglycerides and a reduced rate of hepatic very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) triglyceride secretion (9.8 ± 1.1 mg/dL/min for apoA-I(-/-) versus 12.5 ± 1.3 mg/dL/min for C57BL/6 mice, P < 0.05). In agreement with these findings, adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of apoA-I(Milano) in apoA-I(-/-) mice fed a Western-type diet for 12 wks resulted in a significant reduction in hepatic triglyceride content and an improvement of hepatic histology and architecture. Our data extend the current knowledge on the functions of apoA-I, indicating that in addition to its well-established properties in atheroprotection, it is also an important modulator of processes associated with diet-induced hepatic lipid deposition and NAFLD development in mice. Our findings raise the interesting possibility that expression of therapeutic forms of apoA-I by gene therapy approaches may have a beneficial effect on NAFLD.	22576368
Increased serum liver X receptor ligand oxysterols in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	This study is a post-hoc analysis of a subset of patients who participated in our multi-institutional case-control study that evaluated the effects of pitavastatin in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) with hypercholesterolemia.	22569763
Liver X receptors bridge hepatic lipid metabolism and inflammation.	Liver X receptors (LXRs) are members of the superfamily of metabolic nuclear receptors, which play central roles in the regulation of cholesterol absorption, efflux, transportation and excretion and many other processes correlating with lipid metabolism. LXRs can also regulate inflammation in vitro and in vivo. Accumulating evidence demonstrates that LXR are involved in the metabolism and inflammation in human diseases. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is classically associated with lipid metabolic disorders and inflammatory responses, especially in the nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) phase. The effects of LXRs on cholesterol metabolism and inflammation make them attractive as a potential target for the treatment of NAFLD. Since the ability to synthesize triglycerides may be protective in obesity and fatty liver, the hepatic lipogenesis by LXRs should not rule out the possibility of the use of LXRs in NAFLD.	22257474
Ezetimibe: its novel effects on the prevention and the treatment of cholesterol gallstones and nonalcoholic Fatty liver disease.	The cholesterol absorption inhibitor ezetimibe can significantly reduce plasma cholesterol concentrations by inhibiting the Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 protein (NPC1L1), an intestinal sterol influx transporter that can actively facilitate the uptake of cholesterol for intestinal absorption. Unexpectedly, ezetimibe treatment also induces a complete resistance to cholesterol gallstone formation and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in addition to preventing hypercholesterolemia in mice on a Western diet. Because chylomicrons are the vehicles with which the enterocytes transport cholesterol and fatty acids into the body, ezetimibe could prevent these two most prevalent hepatobiliary diseases possibly through the regulation of chylomicron-derived cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism in the liver. It is highly likely that there is an intestinal and hepatic cross-talk through the chylomicron pathway. Therefore, understanding the molecular mechanisms whereby cholesterol and fatty acids are absorbed from the intestine could offer an efficacious novel approach to the prevention and the treatment of cholesterol gallstones and NAFLD.	22132342
Role of ezetimibe in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a histological spectrum ranging from simple steatosis to steatohepatitis, advanced fibrosis and inflammatory changes. Ezetimibe inhibits cholesterol absorption from the intestinal lumen into enterocytes. The molecular target of ezetimibe is the sterol transporter Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 protein (NPC1L1). Human NPC1L1 is abundantly expressed in the liver and may facilitate the hepatic accumulation of cholesterol. Ezetimibe exerts beneficial effects on several metabolic variables. Ezetimibe treatment attenuates hepatic steatosis and is beneficial in terms of NAFLD biochemical markers. The combination of ezetimibe with other interventions may also be beneficial in NAFLD patients. Our group investigated the ezetimibe-orlistat combination treatment in overweight and obese patients with hypercholesterolemia, with beneficial effects on NAFLD biochemical markers. These results are promising for patients with NAFLD, who usually have increased cardiovascular disease risk and need a multifactorial treatment. However, it should be mentioned that most results are from animal studies and, although modest elevation of liver function tests may raise the suspicion of NAFLD, none of these tests are sensitive to establish the diagnosis of NAFLD with great accuracy.	22059109
High fructose feeding induces copper deficiency in Sprague-Dawley rats: a novel mechanism for obesity related fatty liver.	Dietary copper deficiency is associated with a variety of manifestations of the metabolic syndrome, including hyperlipidemia and fatty liver. Fructose feeding has been reported to exacerbate complications of copper deficiency. In this study, we investigated whether copper deficiency plays a role in fructose-induced fatty liver and explored the potential underlying mechanism(s).	21781943
Pentoxifylline aggravates fatty liver in obese and diabetic ob/ob mice by increasing intestinal glucose absorption and activating hepatic lipogenesis.	Pentoxifylline is in clinical trials for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and diabetic nephropathy. Metabolic and hepatic effects of pentoxifylline were assessed in a murine model of obesity and type 2 diabetes.	21740407
Analysis of global and absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination gene expression in the progressive stages of human nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by a series of pathological changes that range from simple fatty liver to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The objective of this study is to describe changes in global gene expression associated with the progression of human NAFLD. This study is focused on the expression levels of genes responsible for the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination (ADME) of drugs. Differential gene expression between three clinically defined pathological groups-normal, steatosis, and NASH-was analyzed. Genome-wide mRNA levels in samples of human liver tissue were assayed with Affymetrix GeneChip Human 1.0ST arrays. A total of 11,633 genes exhibited altered expression out of 33,252 genes at a 5% false discovery rate. Most gene expression changes occurred in the progression from steatosis to NASH. Principal component analysis revealed that hepatic disease status was the major determinant of differential ADME gene expression rather than age or sex of sample donors. Among the 515 drug transporters and 258 drug-metabolizing enzymes (DMEs) examined, uptake transporters but not efflux transporters or DMEs were significantly over-represented in the number of genes down-regulated. These results suggest that uptake transporter genes are coordinately targeted for down-regulation at the global level during the pathological development of NASH and that these patients may have decreased drug uptake capacity. This coordinated regulation of uptake transporter genes is indicative of a hepatoprotective mechanism acting to prevent accumulation of toxic intermediates in disease-compromised hepatocytes.	21737566
Does hepatic steatosis affect drug metabolizing enzymes in the liver?	Bioavailability and effects of xenobiotics are dependent on absorption, metabolism and elimination of the respective compounds. Hepatocytes are critically important in drug modification and excretion. Molecules like organic anion transporters mediate hepatocyte uptake of xenobiotics, which are subsequently modified by phase I enzymes with cytochrome (CYP) P450 isoenzymes like CYP3A4 being the most important. Phase II enzymes including glucuronosyltransferases further increase aqueous solubility of the respective compounds. The canalicular transport of these substances into the bile is mainly arranged by ATP-binding cassette transporters. Variations in the activity of these enzymes and transporters explain altered drug activity, elimination and eventually increased half-life and toxicity of xenobiotics. Body composition affects distribution of several drugs and fat mass may have to be taken into account in determining appropriate doses of lipophilic compounds. Adiposity is increasingly prevalent in western countries and about half of the adult population is overweight or even obese. Obesity is often associated with an enhanced storage of fat in hepatocytes and hepatic steatosis is diagnosed in nearly 30% of adults. Although this is a benign condition fatty liver is more susceptible to insults leading to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) associated with inflammation and liver fibrosis. There is increasing evidence that drug metabolizing enzymes/transporters are differentially expressed in hepatic steatosis and NASH. Studies in animals, humans and in-vitro models suggesting altered expression of transcription factors, transporters and enzymes involved in drug metabolism in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease are summarized in the current review.	21222589
Ezetimibe; more than a low density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering drug? An update after 4 years.	Ezetimibe (EZE), a selective inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol absorption, is mostly used in combination with statins across various patient populations. Besides its low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering, EZE exerts different effects on several other variables. In an earlier review, we discussed the effects of EZE on lipid parameters other than LDL-C [e.g. C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, insulin sensitivity and endothelial function]. In the present review, we consider recent evidence regarding these topics as well as data reporting novel EZE actions. EZE may protect from cholelithiasis and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and appears as an effective lipid-lowering treatment option for human-immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients, transplant recipients and children with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH). Studies with EZE that raised concern about its effects on atherosclerosis are also discussed. The potential clinical benefit of these actions with respect to vascular events and overall mortality remains to be established in appropriately designed trials.	21044019
Novel role of NPC1L1 in the regulation of hepatic metabolism: potential contribution of ezetimibe in NAFLD/NASH treatment.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease in Western countries and also in other parts of the world. NAFLD encompasses a histological spectrum ranging from simple steatosis to steatohepatitis, advanced fibrosis and inflammatory changes. It frequently occurs with features of the metabolic syndrome including obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia and hypertension. In fact, the metabolic syndrome is a strong predictor of NAFLD. Recently, Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 (NPC1L1) has been shown to play a pivotal role in cholesterol absorption. Unlike mouse NPC1L1 protein, predominantly expressed in the intestines, human and rat NPC1L1 is also abundantly expressed in the liver. Though the exact functions of hepatic NPC1L1 remain unknown, NPC1L1 may facilitate the hepatic accumulation of cholesterol. This raises a potential possibility that ezetimibe may improve fatty liver formation. In this review, potential role of lipid metabolism in NAFLD and its possible modulation through NPC1L1 blockade is discussed.	21044016
[Hypolipidemic therapy in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease].	To date generally accepted that one of the major risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and atherosclerosis is dyslipidemia. The undoubted fact is that the liver plays an important role in the development of atherogenic dyslipidemia, and simultaneously being the target organs, which leads to the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD is a major risk factor for CVD, it limits the possibilities for adequate lipid-lowering therapy, increasing cardiovascular risk. In this regard, the treatment of atherogenic dyslipidemia with statins and fibrates appropriate to hepatoprotectors disposal. Hepatoprotectors choice depends on the stage of NAFLD. At the steatosis stage of the NAFLD expedient method of statins in combination with essential phospholipids. At the nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) stage of NAFLD patient should receive statin therapy combined with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA). Patients with high levels of hypercholesterolemia in achieving target levels of cholesterol--low lipoprotein density (LDL-cholesterol) and decrease the side effects is the best combination of statins with the cholesterol absorption inhibitor. The complex lipid-lowering therapy in patients with NAFLD should include drugs that normalize the intestinal microflora (intestinal antiseptic, pre- and probiotics).	21033080
Cholesterol synthesis is increased and absorption decreased in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease independent of obesity.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is associated with impaired glucose and lipoprotein metabolism. However, the metabolism of cholesterol in NAFLD remains unexplored. We investigated how fatty liver influences cholesterol metabolism in 242 non-diabetic subjects.	20947198
Potential therapeutic uses for ezetimibe beyond lowering LDL-c to decrease cardiovascular events.	Ezetimibe is a relatively new drug that inhibits the absorption of dietary cholesterol in the small intestine. It is a low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering medication that acts directly on the intestine by inhibiting Niemann-Pick C1 Like1 (NPC1L1). Recently, results of the ARBITER 6-HALTS trial (Arterial Biology for the Investigation of the Treatment Effects of Reducing Cholesterol 6-HDL and LDL Treatment Strategies) and the ENHANCE trial (Ezetimibe and Simvastatin in Hypercholesterolemia Enhances Atherosclerosis Regression) showed that ezetimibe had no effect on atherosclerosis despite producing a marked decrease in LDL-C. Recent studies show a potential benefit of ezetimibe in treating insulin resistance, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), gallstones and dyslipidaemia associated with chronic renal failure and organ transplantation. All of these conditions are known to be associated with an increase in risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and further studies are needed to assess the potential benefits of ezetimibe in these therapeutics areas.	20880342
Ezetimibe as a potential treatment for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: is the intestine a modulator of hepatic insulin sensitivity and hepatic fat accumulation?	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic component of the metabolic syndrome and is known to be associated with marked insulin resistance and increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Ezetimibe, an inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol absorption, inhibits Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 (NPC1L1). Interestingly, NPC1L1 is abundantly expressed in human liver, as well as in the intestine. Recent reports suggest a potential benefit of ezetimibe in improving hepatic insulin sensitivity and decreasing hepatic inflammation and lipid accumulation. Insulin resistance and excess hepatic fat accumulation are regarded as key factors in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. We suggest, therefore, that urgent studies are needed to assess the potential therapeutic benefit of ezetimibe in treating NAFLD.	20601094
Bile acids as regulators of hepatic lipid and glucose metabolism.	Besides their well-established roles in dietary lipid absorption and cholesterol homeostasis, bile acids (BA) also act as metabolically active signaling molecules. The flux of reabsorbed BA undergoing enterohepatic circulation, arriving in the liver with the co-absorbed nutrients (e.g. glucose, lipids), provides a signal that coordinates hepatic triglyceride (TG), glucose and energy homeostasis. As signaling molecules with systemic endocrine functions, BA can activate protein kinases A and C as well as mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. Additionally, they are ligands for a G-protein-coupled BA receptor (TGR5/Gpbar-1) and activate nuclear receptors such as farnesoid X receptor (FXR; NR1H4). FXR and its downstream targets play a key role in the control of hepatic de novo lipogenesis, very-low-density lipoprotein-TG export and plasma TG turnover. BA-activated FXR and signal transduction pathways are also involved in the regulation of hepatic gluconeogenesis, glycogen synthesis and insulin sensitivity. Via TGR5, BA are able to stimulate glucagon-like peptide-1 secretion in the small intestine and energy expenditure in brown adipose tissue and skeletal muscle. Dysregulation of BA transport and impaired BA receptor signaling may contribute to the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Thus, BA transport and BA-controlled nuclear receptors and signaling pathways are promising drug targets for treatment of NAFLD. As such, FXR and/or TGR5 ligands have shown promising results in animal models of NAFLD and clinical pilot studies. Despite being a poor FXR and TGR5 ligand, ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) improves hepatic ER stress and insulin sensitivity. Notably, norUDCA, a side chain-shortened homologue of UDCA, improves fatty liver and atherosclerosis in Western diet-fed ApoE(-/-) mice. Collectively, these findings suggest that BA and targeting their receptor/signaling pathways may represent a promising approach to treat NAFLD and closely linked disorders such as obesity, diabetes, dyslipidemia and arteriosclerosis.	20460915
Ezetimbe as potential treatment for cholesterol gallstones: the need for clinical trials.	Obesity is associated with insulin resistance, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and gallstones.High fat diets (unsaturated fats) rich in cholesterol have been demonstrated to produce not only gallstones but also NAFLD and insulin resistance. Interestingly, a high incidence of gallstones is being reported in association with insulin resistance and NAFLD. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the best definitive therapy for symptomatic gallbladder disease. Ezetimibe is a drug that inhibits the absorption of both dietary and biliary cholesterol in the small intestine. Importantly, ezetimibe showed potential benefit not only in treating and preventing gallstones but also in insulin resistance and NAFLD. Further studies are required before the use of ezetimibe for the treatment of gallstones can be advocated.	20355232
Inhibition of acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase 2 (ACAT2) prevents dietary cholesterol-associated steatosis by enhancing hepatic triglyceride mobilization.	Acyl-CoA:cholesterol O-acyl transferase 2 (ACAT2) promotes cholesterol absorption by the intestine and the secretion of cholesteryl ester-enriched very low density lipoproteins by the liver. Paradoxically, mice lacking ACAT2 also exhibit mild hypertriglyceridemia. The present study addresses the unexpected role of ACAT2 in regulation of hepatic triglyceride (TG) metabolism. Mouse models of either complete genetic deficiency or pharmacological inhibition of ACAT2 were fed low fat diets containing various amounts of cholesterol to induce hepatic steatosis. Mice genetically lacking ACAT2 in both the intestine and the liver were dramatically protected against hepatic neutral lipid (TG and cholesteryl ester) accumulation, with the greatest differences occurring in situations where dietary cholesterol was elevated. Further studies demonstrated that liver-specific depletion of ACAT2 with antisense oligonucleotides prevents dietary cholesterol-associated hepatic steatosis both in an inbred mouse model of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (SJL/J) and in a humanized hyperlipidemic mouse model (LDLr(-/-), apoB(100/100)). All mouse models of diminished ACAT2 function showed lowered hepatic triglyceride concentrations and higher plasma triglycerides secondary to increased hepatic secretion of TG into nascent very low density lipoproteins. This work demonstrates that inhibition of hepatic ACAT2 can prevent dietary cholesterol-driven hepatic steatosis in mice. These data provide the first evidence to suggest that ACAT2-specific inhibitors may hold unexpected therapeutic potential to treat both atherosclerosis and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	20231283
NPC1L1 inhibitor ezetimibe is a reliable therapeutic agent for non-obese patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	We recently examined the distribution of abdominal fat, dietary intake and biochemical data in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and found that non-obese NAFLD patients did not necessarily exhibit insulin resistance and/or dysregulated secretion of adipocytokines. However, dietary cholesterol intake was superabundant in non-obese patients compared with obese patients, although total energy and carbohydrate intake was not excessive. Therefore, excess cholesterol intake appears to be one of the main factors associated with NAFLD development and liver injury.	20222991
Serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT) plays a critical role in the onset of fructose-induced hepatic steatosis in mice.	Elevated dietary fructose intake, altered intestinal motility, and barrier function may be involved in the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Because intestinal motility and permeability are also regulated through the bioavailability of serotonin (5-HT), we assessed markers of hepatic injury in serotonin reuptake transporter knockout (SERT(-/-)) and wild-type mice chronically exposed to different monosaccharide solutions (30% glucose or fructose solution) or water for 8 wk. The significant increase in hepatic triglyceride, TNF-alpha, and 4-hydroxynonenal adduct as well as portal endotoxin levels found in fructose-fed mice was associated with a significant decrease of SERT and the tight-junction occludin in the duodenum. Similar effects were not found in mice fed glucose. In contrast, in SERT(-/-) mice fed glucose, portal endotoxin levels, concentration of occludin, and indices of hepatic damage were similar to those found in wild-type and SERT(-/-) mice fed fructose. In fructose-fed mice treated with a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, hepatic steatosis was significantly attenuated. Our data suggest that a loss of intestinal SERT is a critical factor in fructose-induced impairment of intestinal barrier function and subsequently the development of steatosis.	19713474
Long-term combination therapy of ezetimibe and acarbose for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome that is closely associated with multiple factors such as obesity, hyperlipidemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, making it difficult to treat NAFLD effectively using any monotherapy available to date. In this study, we propose a novel combination therapy for NAFLD comprising ezetimibe (EZ), a cholesterol absorption inhibitor, and acarbose (AC), an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor.	19596472
Obesity: pathophysiology and clinical management.	Obesity is an increasingly serious socioeconomic and clinical problem. Between (1/4)-(1/3) of population in the developed countries can be classified as obese. Four major etiological factors for development of obesity are genetic determinants, environmental factors, food intake and exercise. Obesity increases the risk of the development of various pathologic conditions including: insulin-resistant diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, endocrine problems, and certain forms of cancer. Thus, obesity is a negative determinant for longevity. In this review we provide broad overview of pathophysiology of obesity. We also discuss various available, and experimental therapeutic methods. We highlight functions of adipocytes including fat storing capacity and secretory activity resulting in numerous endocrine effects like leptin, IL-6, adiponectin, and resistin. The anti-obesity drugs are classified according to their primary action on energy balance. Major classes of these drugs are: appetite suppressants, inhibitors of fat absorption (i.e. orlistat), stimulators of thermogenesis and stimulators of fat mobilization. The appetite suppressants are further divided into noradrenergic agents, (i.e. phentermine, phendimetrazine, benzphetamine, diethylpropion), serotoninergic agents (i.e. dexfenfluramine), and mixed noradrenergic-serotoninergic agents (i.e. sibutramine). Thus, we highlight recent advances in the understanding of the central neural control of energy balance, current treatment strategies for obesity and the most promising targets for the development of novel anti-obesity drugs.	19199918
Co-factors in liver disease: the role of HFE-related hereditary hemochromatosis and iron.	The severity of liver disease and its presentation is thought to be influenced by many host factors. Prominent among these factors is the level of iron in the body. The liver plays an important role in coordinating the regulation of iron homeostasis and is involved in regulating the level of iron absorption in the duodenum and iron recycling by the macrophages. Iron homeostasis is disturbed by several metabolic and genetic disorders, including various forms of hereditary hemochromatosis. This review will focus on liver disease and how it is affected by disordered iron homeostasis, as observed in hereditary hemochromatosis and due to HFE mutations. The types of liver disease covered herein are chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, alcoholic liver disease (ALD), non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), end-stage liver disease, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT).	18848602
Dysregulation of systemic iron metabolism in alcoholic liver diseases.	Alcoholic liver diseases (ALD) are frequently associated with iron overload. Until recently, the effects of ethanol in hepatic iron uptake and intestinal iron absorption have not been clarified in detail. Two possible mechanisms for iron overload are the uptake of iron into hepatocytes in a specific manner through the increased expression of transferrin receptor (TfR) 1; and increased intestinal iron absorption by the lowering of hepcidin. It is worthwhile to examine whether a similar mechanism is present in the development of steatosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Hepatocytes have several iron uptake pathways. Ethanol increases transferrin (Tf)-mediated uptake via a receptor-dependent manner, but downregulates the non-Tf-bound iron uptake. According to immunohistochemical study, TfR1 was increased in hepatocytes in 80% of hepatic tissues of patients with ALD, but was not detected in normal hepatic tissues. In an experimental model, ethanol exposure to the primary cultured-hepatocytes in the presence of iron increased TfR1 expression and (59)Fe-labeled Tf uptake. In patients with ALD, intestinal iron absorption is increased by oral iron uptake assay. The regulatory hormone for iron homeostasis, hepcidin is downregulated in ethanol-loaded mice liver. As well as ALD, a similar mechanism was present in the mouse model fed with a high-fat diet, a model of the initial phenomenon of steatosis. The common mechanism for hepatic iron deposition and the triggering role of iron may be present in the development of ALD and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease/NASH.	18336670
Ezetimibe improves high fat and cholesterol diet-induced non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in mice.	Ezetimibe is a novel cholesterol and plant sterol absorption inhibitor that reduces plasma low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol by selectively binding to the intestinal cholesterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1. Mice deficient in Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 are protected from high fat/cholesterol diet-induced fatty liver as well as hypercholesterolemia. The object of the present study was to determine whether ezetimibe treatment could reduce hepatic steatosis in diet-induced obese mice. C57BL/6J mice were fed a high fat/cholesterol containing semi-purified diet (45% Kcal fat and 0.12% cholesterol) for 7 months after weaning. These mice were not only obese, but also developed hepatomegaly and hepatic steatosis, with varying degrees of liver fibrosis and steatohepatitis. About 87% of the mice on the high fat/cholesterol diet for 7 months had elevated plasma alanine aminotransferase activity, a biomarker for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Chronic administration of ezetimibe for 4 weeks significantly reduced hepatomegaly by decreasing hepatic triglyceride, cholesteryl ester and free cholesterol in diet-induced obese mice fed high fat/cholesterol diet for 7 months. Chronic ezetimibe treatment also significantly decreased plasma alanine aminotransferase activity. These results suggest that ezetimibe may be a novel treatment for high fat/cholesterol-induced non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	18329014
Green tea extract protects leptin-deficient, spontaneously obese mice from hepatic steatosis and injury.	The incidence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has risen along with the ongoing obesity epidemic. Green tea extract (GTE) inhibits intestinal lipid absorption and may regulate hepatic lipid accumulation. The objective of this study was to determine whether GTE protects against hepatic lipid accumulation during the development of NAFLD in an obese mouse model. Five-wk-old ob/ob (obese) mice and their lean littermates (8 mice x genotype(-1) x dietary treatment(-1)) were fed GTE at 0, 1, or 2% (wt:wt) for 6 wk. The body weights of obese mice and lean littermates fed diets containing GTE were 23-25% and 11-20% lower (P < 0.05) than their respective controls fed no GTE. Histologic evaluation showed a significant reduction in hepatic steatosis in GTE-fed obese mice only and histologic scores were correlated with hepatic lipid concentration (r = 0.84; P < 0.05), which was reduced dose dependently by GTE. GTE protected against hepatic injury as suggested by 30-41% and 22-33% lower serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activities, respectively. Hepatic alpha-tocopherol was 36% higher in obese mice than lean mice. GTE tended (P = 0.06) to lower hepatic alpha-tocopherol, which was not fully explained by the GTE-mediated reduction in hepatic lipid. Hepatic ascorbic acid was lower in obese mice than in lean mice (P < 0.05) and was unaltered by GTE. Obese mice had lower serum adiponectin than lean mice and this was not affected by GTE. The results suggest that GTE protects against NAFLD by limiting hepatic lipid accumulation and injury without affecting hepatic antioxidant status and adiponectin-mediated lipid metabolism. Further study is underway to define the events by which GTE protects against obesity-triggered NAFLD.	18203899
Orlistat-associated adverse effects and drug interactions: a critical review.	Orlistat, an anti-obesity drug, is a potent and specific inhibitor of intestinal lipases. In light of the recent US FDA approval of the over-the-counter sale of orlistat (60 mg three times daily), clinicians need to be aware that its use may be associated with less well known, but sometimes clinically relevant, adverse effects. More specifically, the use of orlistat has been associated with several mild-to-moderate gastrointestinal adverse effects, such as oily stools, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and faecal spotting. A few cases of serious hepatic adverse effects (cholelithiasis, cholostatic hepatitis and subacute liver failure) have been reported. However, the effects of orlistat on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease are beneficial. Orlistat-induced weight loss seems to have beneficial effects on blood pressure. No effect has been observed on calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, iron, copper or zinc balance or on bone biomarkers. Interestingly, the use of orlistat has been associated with rare cases of acute kidney injury, possibly due to the increased fat malabsorption resulting from the inhibition of pancreatic and gastric lipase by orlistat, leading to the formation of soaps with calcium and resulting in increased free oxalate absorption and enteric hyperoxaluria. Orlistat has a beneficial effect on carbohydrate metabolism. No significant effect on cancer risk has been reported with orlistat.Orlistat interferes with the absorption of many drugs (such as warfarin, amiodarone, ciclosporin and thyroxine as well as fat-soluble vitamins), affecting their bioavailability and effectiveness. This review considers orlistat-related adverse effects and drug interactions. The clinical relevance and pathogenesis of these effects is also discussed.	18095746
Pharmacokinetics of trapidil (Rocornal) in patients with chronic liver disease.	The pharmacokinetics of trapidil (Rocornal, Deutsches Hydrierwerk Rodleben GmbH) were studied in 15 patients with chronic liver disease (12 patients with hepatic cirrhosis, 2 patients with alcoholic fatty liver, one patient with liver fibrosis). Trapidil was given orally (200 mg, Rocornal dragees 100 mg) as well as intravenously (100 mg) in random order. Serum samples were analyzed for trapidil by HPLC. The pharmacokinetic parameters were compared with the parameters of 12 healthy volunteers, investigated by Weiss [1991]. Total plasma clearance was decreased significantly in patients with hepatic cirrhosis (99.6 ml/min vs 273.1 ml/min in controls and 255.3 ml/min in patients with non cirrhotic liver disease). However, there was no difference in clearance between patients with compensated and patients with decompensated cirrhosis. Clearance and aspartate aminotransferase activity correlated inversely. In addition, in some of the patients suffering from portal hypertension delayed absorption was observed, but the difference did not reach statistical significance. The volumes of distribution were significantly lower in patients with non alcoholic cirrhosis (19.9 l vs 36.8 l in controls and 41.0 l in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis). It might be concluded from this study, that dosage adjustments are necessary in treatment of patients with cirrhosis. In patients suffering from portal hypertension an intravenous administration should be prefered.	1490801
